Let me work through this carefully. The text is B98: "The account says opening the window caused the letter to stay dry."

This is the same sentence as in example_T10D.json (T10-D). Let me use that as a model but write my own translation.

Wait — I'm a translator. Let me think about what's being asked. The text is B98. Let me number the sentences.

Sentence 1: "The account says opening the window caused the letter to stay dry."

This is one sentence. It reports what "the account" says. So the content is TOLD in world account_world (or some named world).

Let me name the things:
- account: the account (a thing that says something)
- window: the window
- letter: the letter

Now, the standing. The main clause is "The account says ..." — so the fact that the account says this is CLAIMED or GIVEN. Per rule 4: the main clause is CLAIMED; "who", "which", "as", "while", "-ing" descriptions are GIVEN.

Actually, "The account says opening the window caused the letter to stay dry." The main assertion is "The account says [X]". So the fact that the account says this is asserted — CLAIMED or GIVEN?

In the example_T10D.json, they marked "account is an account" as GIVEN. And the opening, dry, and because as TOLD in world account_world.

Hmm. Actually per the rules: "What a story, report, note, letter, speech or dream says as TOLD in a named world of its own." And "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world."

Wait — but here it's "The account says" — that's a report/claim about an account. The rule says "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world."

Hmm, but "the account says" — the account is a thing (a document/account). It's TOLD content within account_world.

Actually, looking at the example, they put the account's existence as GIVEN (account is an account), and sent "The account says" to the bin as the attribution. Then the inner content is TOLD in account_world.

Let me follow the example closely since it's essentially the same sentence. But I should write my own translation and mark my own readings. Let me reconsider.

Actually the text IS literally the same as the example's sentence. Let me do the translation myself but keep close to the shape of the example since it's the model.

Let me number sentences:
Sentence 1: "The account says opening the window caused the letter to stay dry."

Things:
- account: the account — a thing that speaks/reports. It answers a press... not stated. Actually, an account is not a body — but the text doesn't make that clear. Hmm. Response class "not stated" (the text does not say).
- window: the window — response to a press not stated (text doesn't say).
- letter: the letter — response to a press not stated.

Actually, what KIND are these? In the example they used kind(window, window), kind(letter, letter), kind(account, account). That's fine — the kind is the plain name.

Happenings: "opening the window caused the letter to stay dry." The "opening the window" is a happening — but no named doer. The example encoded it as a Fact "window was opened" (holds(opened(window))). Because there's no named doer. Let me do the same.

Actually, let me think: is "opening the window" a happening (kind 4) with a doer? Rule: "Happenings. Write who did what to what, and which way, using the text's own verb." The text has no named doer. So it's better as a Fact.

"the letter to stay dry" — a fact: letter stayed dry.

"caused" — this is a BECAUSE claim: the letter staying dry came about because of the opening of the window. Actually "X caused Y" — that's BECAUSE: Y BECAUSE X. Or is it a causal word (kind 10)? Kind 10 is about influence: "INFLUENCE MAKES, LETS, HELPS or STOPS THING [content]". "caused" is more like MAKES. Hmm.

But the example used `claim_because`. Let me follow: the text says "opening the window caused the letter to stay dry" — that asserts that the opening produced the staying dry. That's a BECAUSE claim (C produced E). So: line dry BECAUSE line opening.

Actually "caused" — should I write a general line "opening a window MAKES a letter stay dry"? No — rule 9 of translator rules: "An added line... may not take the place of the reason the writer actually gives". And the example's reading says "The causal assertion supplies no general MAKES rule; writing such a rule would turn the very claim being checked into its own premise." Good.

So the BECAUSE is the claim itself.

Now, is this BECAUSE claimed in the actual ledger or TOLD in account_world? It's part of what the account says. So TOLD in world account_world.

Standing of the account's existence: The sentence's main clause is "The account says ...". Hmm, is this CLAIMED or GIVEN? The writer asserts that the account says this. Actually per rule 4, main clause is CLAIMED. But "The account says" is the attribution frame. The rule "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." suggests sending "The account says" to the bin.

But we still need the account as a thing line since it's mentioned. The example marked it GIVEN.

Hmm, actually let me reconsider. The example put "The account says" in the bin (reason: the attribution is retained here and scopes all reported contents to account_world) and made account a thing line with GIVEN standing.

But wait — if "The account says" is in the bin, then the claim that the account says anything is... in the bin. And the account thing line is just "account is an account". Hmm, that's marked "said" though.

Let me think about this more carefully. Actually the attribution "the account says" — the writer does assert it. It's the main clause. But the rule says to send the attribution to the bin and write the content as TOLD.

Hmm, but there's a tension. Let me handle it: the existence/nature of the account is GIVEN (taken for granted — there is an account). The fact that it says this... 

Actually, I think the cleanest reading consistent with the rules: The sentence as a whole frames an inner claim. The inner content (opening caused dryness) is TOLD in account_world. The framing ("the account says") is the attribution — send to the bin. But we need a thing line for the account.

Let me follow the example's shape closely since the example is the same sentence. But I need to make my own judgments and record them in "Readings I chose".

Hmm, but actually there's a real question here: should "the account says X" be CLAIMED (the writer claims that the account says X)? The example chose GIVEN for the account thing line and put the attribution words in the bin.

I'll make my own call but stay close. Let me think about which is more faithful.

Rule 4: "Standing follows what the sentence asserts and what it takes for granted. Grammar is the usual clue: the main clause is CLAIMED; 'who', 'which', 'as', 'while' and '-ing' descriptions are GIVEN."

The main clause is "The account says ...". So the assertion is: the account says [opening the window caused the letter to stay dry]. That's CLAIMED. But the content is what a report/note says → TOLD in a named world.

So: the fact that the account says it is CLAIMED (about the account in the actual world), and the content is TOLD in account_world.

Hmm, but the rule "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin" — "says" is close to "believes/concludes". So the attribution goes to the bin.

I think the cleanest: 
- Thing line for account: GIVEN (the account is presupposed to exist) — actually the existence of the account is asserted implicitly.

Hmm. Let me just decide: I'll write the account thing line as GIVEN "account is an account; response to a press not stated", and note in readings that I treat the existence of the account as taken for granted and the attribution "the account says" as scoping the inner content to account_world (sent to bin).

Actually wait. Let me reconsider — is it better to have a CLAIMED line "account says ..." ? The rules say send the attribution to the bin. The example sent it to the bin. I'll do that.

Hmm, but then the account thing line being "said" with GIVEN standing is a bit odd since the words "account is an account" aren't literally said. But it's directly said ("The account" is named). The kind "account" comes from the word "account". OK.

Actually — response class. "account" — is it fixed? heavy and loose? The text doesn't say. → "not stated". Good.

"window" — a window... the text doesn't say how it answers a press. → not stated. Although a window could be fixed or heavy and loose. Text is silent → not stated. Good.

"letter" — a letter (a document). Text silent → not stated. Though "light and loose" is tempting. But rule 3 says "If the text does not say how it answers a press, write 'not stated'. A class you guess is a filled-in line." So I'll write "not stated" as a "said"-mark line? Hmm. "not stated" is what you write when the text is silent — so the line itself is... hmm.

Actually, the thing line contains: NAME is a KIND; it answers a press as one of the six response classes. When not stated, write "not stated". Is that line "said" or "filled in"? The kind and name come from the text ("said"); the "not stated" is the absence. I think the whole line can be "said" since we're recording what the text gives (which is "not stated"). The example used "said" for those. OK, follow.

Hmm, but actually — in the example, `account`, `window`, `letter` thing lines are all "said". OK.

Now let me think about whether "the letter to stay dry" involves stages. "stay dry" — the letter was dry and stayed dry. Stage: letter dry. Hmm, "stay dry" implies it was dry at the start and remained dry. Should I write a fact "letter was dry [at the start]" and "letter stayed dry"? 

Rule 13: "When a thing's state changes in the text, put the stage in the fact." Here the state does NOT change — it stays dry. So no stage change. The fact "letter stayed dry" suffices. But "stayed" implies it was dry before. Hmm, I could add a filled-in GIVEN line "letter was dry before the opening" — is that warranted? "stay dry" does presuppose prior dryness. But is that a needed commitment? It might be over-filling. Actually "stayed dry" is defined in the language's result vocabulary: "STAYS" is a result. Hmm, result kinds: "MOVES direction, STAYS, TOUCHES thing, or BECOMES [description], as a result of happening NAME". So STAYS is about a thing staying in place. "stay dry" is different — it's about staying in a state.

Hmm. In the example they wrote `holds(stayed_dry(letter))`. Fine. I'll do that.

Should I add a filled-in line that the letter was dry before? The word "stay" presupposes it. Hmm. I think I could note it as a stage: "letter dry at the start" GIVEN filled in. But actually the rule says put the stage in the fact when the state changes. It doesn't change here. I think adding "letter was dry at the start" is a reasonable filled-in reading of "stay". Let me consider whether it's needed. It's part of what "stay dry" commits to. Actually, I think it's safer to record it as a filled-in line, since "stayed dry" logically entails "was dry and remained dry".

Hmm, but rule 9: "An added line, whatever its mark, may not be the claimed line in other words, may not take the place of the reason the writer actually gives, and may not let the opposite follow just as well." Adding "letter was dry at the start" doesn't violate that. But is it needed? It's an entailment of "stay dry". I think it's fine to add as a stage/filled-in. But it also adds clutter.

Let me think about whether to keep it simple. Actually, I lean toward including it because the language says "When a thing's state changes in the text, put the stage in the fact" — and here there's an implicit stage. But the state doesn't change... "stay dry" = dry throughout. Hmm.

I'll add one filled-in line: "letter was dry before the opening" as a stage noted in the fact. Actually — hmm, "before the opening" adds a temporal order ("when" is outside the language except chain order and stage). Let me phrase as: "letter was dry [stage: before]" — hmm.

Actually, let me simplify: I'll write a filled-in line "letter was dry at the stage before the opening" — or just skip it and put a note in readings. Hmm.

Let me reconsider. The task says be complete: "Every sentence of the text appears in the ledger, in the bin, or in both." and "Nothing is dropped silently."

I think "stayed dry" is fully captured by "letter stayed dry". The presupposition of prior dryness is an inference. I'll include it as a filled-in line because it's a genuine commitment of "stay". Actually... hmm, I worry about over-filling. Let me include it but keep it minimal and marked "filled in".

Hmm, actually, I realize I should think about whether to make this a "Result" line (kind 5) tied to a happening. The BECAUSE claims that "opening the window" produced "the letter staying dry". If I model "opening the window" as a happening and "letter stays dry" as a result of it... but a result must be MOVES/STAYS/TOUCHES/BECOMES. "STAYS" — a thing STAYS as a result of happening NAME. Hmm! "the letter STAYS dry"? Actually "STAYS" in the result vocabulary is "THING MOVES direction, STAYS, TOUCHES thing, or BECOMES [description]". So "letter STAYS" would mean the letter stays put. Not "stays dry". BECOMES [description] — letter BECOMES dry? No, it was already dry.

So the "stay dry" is best as a Fact: "letter stayed dry". Good — matches the example.

Now what about "opening the window"? Is it a Happening (kind 4)? "NAME: DOER VERB THING [DIRECTION]". There's no DOER named. So it can't be a proper happening line. As a Fact: "window was opened". The example did exactly that and noted in readings that they retain it as a Fact rather than inventing a doer. Good.

Hmm, but then rule 3: "Every thing in a happening must have a thing line of its own." Since it's a fact not a happening, fine. But window is a thing anyway.

Now the BECAUSE: line dry BECAUSE line opening. It's TOLD in account_world since it's part of what the account says.

Wait — should the whole thing be TOLD? "The account says opening the window caused the letter to stay dry." Yes — the account says [that opening the window caused the letter to stay dry]. Both the cause and the effect and the causal link are things the account says. So all in account_world.

Now — do I need a CLAIMED line at the actual level asserting "the account says X"? Per the rules, "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." So the attribution goes to the bin. And "The account says" is the attribution. Hmm, but "says" isn't exactly "believes, wants, or concludes" — but it's close (a report's content).

Also rule: "What a story, report, note, letter, speech or dream says as TOLD in a named world of its own." — "The account" is a report-like thing. Its content is TOLD.

OK. So:
- Bin entry: "The account says" — attribution; scopes the reported content to world account_world; existence of the account taken as GIVEN.

But careful: if "The account says" goes to the bin entirely, then nothing at the actual level claims the account says anything. The account thing line would then be "filled in" perhaps? The words "the account" are said. Hmm.

Let me handle it like the example: account thing line is "said" with GIVEN standing: "account is an account; response to a press not stated". And the words "The account says" go to the bin with the reason.

Hmm, but then the line "account is an account" is marked "said" while the words in it aren't verbatim. Well, the word "account" is said. I think it's fine — the example did this.

Actually hold on. Let me reconsider: maybe I should have a CLAIMED line at the actual level: "the account states [content]" and the content TOLD in account_world. But the rules explicitly say to send the attribution to the bin. And there's a subtlety: "TOLD in world NAME" lines are kept out of the actual ledger. If I wrote a CLAIMED line "the account says X" where X is the content, that would restate content in the actual ledger. Rule 10: "Claims about lines point; they do not restate." Hmm, that's about kind 13 lines.

I think the safest and most rule-consistent: attribution → bin; account thing line GIVEN; content TOLD in account_world.

Now, also: is the existence of the account CLAIMED or GIVEN? The writer asserts "The account says..." which presupposes there is an account. Presuppositions taken for granted → GIVEN. Yes, GIVEN.

Now let me also think: does anything need to be at the CLAIMED level? The sentence's whole content is inside "The account says". So the actual ledger gets only the account thing line (GIVEN). Everything else is TOLD.

Hmm, but is the writer claiming that the account says this? That would be CLAIMED. But it's the attribution → bin. OK.

Let me reconsider once more whether "the account says" should be a CLAIMED line. The instruction in 39: "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." This is explicit. "says" is the attribution verb. → bin. Good.

Now, the what-if. Should I create a what-if? The text has no explicit what-if. The example T10D had "whatifs": []. Right, no what-if in the text. Good.

Now, Prolog clauses. Following example_T10D.json shapes.

Let me name things:
- account (kind: account)
- window (kind: window)
- letter (kind: letter)

World name: account_world.

Lines:
1. `account` — GIVEN — "account is a account; response to a press not stated" — hmm, "account is an account". Let me phrase: "account is a account; it answers a press not stated". Let me write "account is a report-of-events kind"? Hmm. Let me keep: kind(account, account).

Actually "is a KIND" — the kind is a plain name. "account is an account" is circular but the example did `kind(account, account)`. I could use kind(account, account_document)? Hmm, but that's an added nuance. Let me just do kind(account, account) like the example. Actually, maybe better: kind(account, account) is a bit degenerate. Let me use `kind(account, account_text)`? Hmm, no, the example used `kind(account, account)`. I'll follow: `kind(account, account)`.

Hmm, wait. Let me reconsider. A "kind" is meant to be a plain classification. "The account" — it's an account (a written account/report). So kind = account. Fine.

2. `window` — TOLD in world account_world — "window is a window; response to a press not stated"
3. `letter` — TOLD in world account_world — "letter is a letter; response to a press not stated"

Wait — is the window/letter only in the told world? The window and letter are mentioned only in the account's content. So yes, TOLD in account_world. The example did that.

Hmm, but is the window a thing in the actual world? The text says "the account says opening the window..." — the window is only within the account's telling. So TOLD. Yes.

4. `opening` — TOLD in account_world — "window was opened; opener not named" — holds(opened(window))
5. `dry` — TOLD in account_world — "letter stayed dry" — holds(stayed_dry(letter))
6. `because` — TOLD in account_world — "line dry BECAUSE line opening" — claim_because(because, stayed_dry(letter), opened(window))

And maybe:
7. `predry` — filled in — TOLD in account_world — "letter was dry at the stage before the opening" — holds(dry(letter)) at stage before. Hmm, how to encode? holds(dry(letter)) might clash with... no. Hmm.

Actually, let me think about whether to include this. "stay dry" presupposes "was dry". I think it's a legitimate commitment. But it complicates the Prolog: `holds(dry(letter)) :- line(predry).` and `holds(stayed_dry(letter)) :- line(dry).`. These are compatible.

Hmm, I'm torn. Let me include it — it's the kind of "missing step" that a complete ledger records, and it's marked "filled in". Actually... is it a missing step? It's more like a presupposition of the word "stay".

Hmm, "stayed_dry(letter)" already captures it if "stayed" is read as including prior dryness. I think adding a separate line is arguably double-counting. Let me instead put it in Readings I chose: "Sentence 1: 'stay dry' presupposes the letter was dry before. I fold this into the single fact 'letter stayed dry' rather than write a separate prior-state line." Hmm, or I write it.

Actually, you know, let me write it as a filled-in line with the stage in the fact per rule 13. Rule 13: "When a thing's state changes in the text, put the stage in the fact: the door open in the morning, the door open in the evening." Here there is no change — it stays dry. So there's really just one state: dry. Hmm.

But "stayed dry" — the state "dry" persists across a span including the opening. Let me just do: `dry` fact = "letter stayed dry [stage: before, during and after the opening]"? No, "during and after the opening" — that's timing, outside the language.

OK here's my decision: I'll write one filled-in line noting the presupposed prior state, phrased minimally: "letter was dry at the stage before the opening" — hmm, but "before the opening" is ordering, which the language allows via chain order.

Hmm, actually let me reconsider — maybe simpler and cleaner: don't add it. "letter stayed dry" is the whole claim. The presupposition is a nuance of the word "stay"; the fact "stayed_dry(letter)" already contains it semantically. I'll note it in Readings I chose.

Hmm. But "Nothing is dropped silently." I'm not dropping it — I'm recording it in the readings. Actually the readings section is for "Readings I chose" — the readings open to me and the one I took. I can say: "'stay dry' could mean (a) the letter was dry and remained dry, (b) simply the letter was dry throughout. Chosen: (a), captured in the single fact 'letter stayed dry'; no separate prior-state line since the state does not change."

Hmm, that's a reasonable place. Actually let me just include a filled-in line. It makes the ledger more complete and it's explicitly allowed ("When you feel a missing step is obvious: write it as its own line, marked 'filled in'"). The prior dryness is part of what "stay" commits to. I'll add it.

Let me name it `predry`. Content: "letter was dry at the stage before the opening". Hmm — "before the opening" implies temporal ordering which is "when" — outside the language ("When, beyond the order of a chain and the stage named in a fact"). Hmm. The stage named in a fact is allowed. So "letter was dry [stage: prior]" — the stage is named in the fact. Let me phrase: "letter was dry at the prior stage". 

Actually, I realize there's risk of over-engineering. Let me reconsider one more time.

The core of the text is a causal claim reported from an account. The essential ledger: account exists (GIVEN), window, letter things (TOLD), window opened (TOLD), letter stayed dry (TOLD), dry BECAUSE opening (TOLD). Plus the attribution in the bin.

I'll add the prior-dryness as one filled-in line because "stay" carries it. Let me phrase it as: "letter was dry at the stage before [the opening]" — hmm.

Alternative: I could fold it in as "letter stayed dry [stage: dry throughout]" — no.

Let me just do: `predry` | filled in | TOLD in account_world | "letter was dry [stage: before the opening]; the presupposition carried by 'stay'" | sentence 1.

Prolog: `holds(dry(letter)) :- line(predry).` Hmm, but "dry(letter)" vs "stayed_dry(letter)" — could be seen as clashing? No.

Hmm, actually maybe I should make it a stage-labeled fact: `holds(dry(letter, before_opening))`. Hmm, that's a two-arg fact. Let me use `holds(dry(letter))`. Simple.

Hmm, wait. Actually, thinking about it more — is this really needed? Consider: does anything depend on it? No. Does the checker need it? No. Does it add commitments the writer made? Technically yes (entailed). 

I'll include it. It's defensible and marked filled in. Actually... hmm, let me reconsider the downside: if a checker sees `holds(dry(letter))` and `holds(stayed_dry(letter))`, no conflict. Fine.

Hmm, but actually — one more thought. There's a risk that adding it makes it look like I'm asserting the letter was dry in the actual world. But it's TOLD in account_world. Fine.

OK, decision: include `predry`, filled in, TOLD in account_world.

Hmm, actually, hmm. Let me reconsider yet again. I keep flip-flopping. Let me settle: The text says "stay dry". A reader reconstructing commitments would want to know: the letter was dry and remained dry. Writing "letter stayed dry" captures it in the standard idiom. The decomposition into "was dry" + "remained dry" is arguably my paraphrase. Rule 15: "Where part was said and part is your choice, split the line if you can."

Hmm. "stay dry" = "remain dry" = "was dry and did not become not-dry". 

OK final: I'll include it as a filled-in line since it's a real presupposition and the task rewards completeness. Done deliberating.

Hmm, actually no — wait. Let me reconsider the risk under rule 9: "An added line... may not be the claimed line in other words". "letter was dry before the opening" is not the claimed line in other words (the claimed line is "letter stayed dry"). It's a presupposition. Fine, it's allowed.

OK. Include.

Now, is there anything else? "opening the window" — is there a tendency or anything? No. Is there a general line? No — the causal claim is a particular BECAUSE, not a general MAKES rule. Good (and the example explicitly avoided writing one).

Is "caused" a "causal word" (kind 10) — "INFLUENCE MAKES, LETS, HELPS or STOPS THING"? Hmm. "opening the window caused the letter to stay dry" — could be read as "the opening MAKES the letter stay dry" in this instance. But kind 10 is about influence with a tendency. There's no tendency stated. So better as BECAUSE. Actually, "caused" asserts production → BECAUSE (per rule 11: "Use BECAUSE where the text says one thing produced another"). Yes, BECAUSE.

Good.

Now — words I split: none. "account" is used in one sense. "stay" — hmm, "stay dry" — one sense. "letter" — one sense (a letter/document). Hmm, "letter" could mean a written letter or a character of the alphabet. Here it's a document/object. One sense in this text. No split needed. Actually — could note "letter: a written document / a character of the alphabet"? The text uses only one. Splitting is only when the text uses one word in two senses. Not the case. So words_split: [].

Hmm, what about "account"? "account" could mean a bank account or a narrative account. Here: narrative account. Only one sense used. No split.

"window" — one sense. "dry" — one sense. "open" — "opening the window" (verb sense), one sense.

OK, words_split: [].

Readings I chose:
1. Sentence 1: "The account says" — attribution frame. Readings: (a) the writer asserts that the account states the causal claim (attribution goes to the bin, content TOLD in account_world); (b) the writer adopts the claim as their own (content CLAIMED). Chosen: (a), per rule "who believes... send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world."
2. Sentence 1: "opening the window" — no named doer. Readings: (a) model as a happening with an invented doer; (b) model as the fact "window was opened". Chosen: (b).
3. Sentence 1: "caused" — readings: (a) production → BECAUSE; (b) reason to expect → SINCE; (c) a general MAKES rule. Chosen: (a) BECAUSE; not a general rule, since that would supply the premise for the very claim being checked.
4. Sentence 1: "stay dry" — readings: (a) presupposes prior dryness and persistence; (b) simply "was dry". Chosen: (a); wrote the prior state as filled-in line predry and kept the persistence in line dry.
5. Response classes: readings for window/letter/account — the text is silent; readings: guess a class (fixed / heavy and loose / light and loose) vs. "not stated". Chosen: "not stated", said-mark, since rule 3 directs that.

Let me also consider: is "opening" a slip of spelling? No.

The count: lines said, lines filled in, lines usual case, sentences that lost something to the bin.

Lines:
- account: said
- window: said
- letter: said
- opening: said
- dry: said
- because: said
- predry: filled in

So: said = 6, filled in = 1, usual case = 0. Sentences losing to bin: sentence 1 (the attribution words "The account says").

Hmm, wait. Actually is `account` thing line "said"? The words "the account" are said. The kind "account" comes from the word. Yes, said.

Hmm, and are `window` and `letter` thing lines "said"? "opening the window" and "the letter" — yes, the names are said. said.

`opening` — "opening the window caused..." — the words "opening the window" are said. said.

`dry` — "the letter to stay dry" — said.

`because` — "caused" — said.

Good: 6 said, 1 filled in.

Now let me also double check: every sentence of the text appears in the ledger, in the bin, or in both. Sentence 1 appears in both (lines carry sentence 1; bin has an entry with sentence 1). Good.

Now the bin entries:
1. Sentence 1: "The account says" — reason: "The attribution; it scopes the reported content to world account_world. The account's existence is taken as GIVEN at the actual level; nothing else is claimed about the actual world. Sent here under the rule for who believes or reports what."

Also: anything else in the bin? Degree words — none. Figures of speech — none. Quoted commands/questions — none. "so hard" — none. Timing/"when" — hmm, "stay" implies duration but I captured it. 

What about "caused" strength? No strength stated. Nothing.

Hmm — should I bin anything else? Let me scan: "The account says opening the window caused the letter to stay dry." That's it. Words binned: "The account says". 

Actually, hmm — should "caused" produce a bin entry? No, it's a causal word and it's captured as BECAUSE.

What about the image/figure of speech? None.

OK. One bin entry.

Hmm, wait. Let me reconsider whether "The account says" being binned is right, given that the example did exactly that with a long reason. Yes.

Now — the JSON. Let me follow the encoding guide schema exactly. Fields required: "paragraph", "whose", "sentences", "bin", "leftover", "whatifs", "lines", "words_split", "readings_chosen". Optional extras like "names", "translation_gauge", "author_note", "status" appeared in examples. The guide says "Every field below is required unless marked optional." The listed fields: paragraph, whose, sentences, bin, leftover, whatifs, lines, words_split, readings_chosen. I'll include those plus maybe "names". Let me include the required ones and "names" for helpfulness. Actually example_P14 didn't have "names" or "translation_gauge". Let me keep it lean: the required nine fields. Maybe add "names" — it's harmless. Hmm, the guide says nothing else goes in the block: "Nothing else goes in that block." Hmm! "After them, print the ledger once more as ONE JSON object inside a fenced code block... Nothing else goes in that block." I read "nothing else" as nothing but the JSON object. But to be safe, maybe I should stick to exactly the listed fields. The examples include extras though. I'll include exactly the schema fields shown in the guide's template (which is: paragraph, whose, sentences, bin, leftover, whatifs, lines, words_split, readings_chosen). That's the safest.

Hmm, but example_T10D.json has "corpus_question", "question_status", "names", "translation_gauge", "author_note", "status". Those are extras. The guide says "Match their shapes" regarding prolog clauses etc. I'll include the core nine fields. Maybe I'll add "names" too since it helps. Hmm — "Nothing else goes in that block" likely means no prose/comments. I'll include the nine required fields to be safe and clean.

Actually, let me include "names" as well — it's genuinely useful for "could see which parts were the writer's and which were yours". Hmm, but strictly... The template in the guide shows exactly the fields. I'll match the template. Nine fields. OK.

Hmm, actually let me reconsider: the guide's template is presented as the JSON shape with "Every field below is required unless marked optional." So the required fields are those in the template. Adding extras is what examples do. I think adding "names" is fine and low-risk. But to minimize risk of violating "Nothing else goes in that block," I'll just do the nine.

Hmm. Let me include "names" — no. Let me do nine. Clean.

Hmm, hold on, actually — "Nothing else goes in that block" — I'm now fairly confident it means "no prose outside the JSON object". Adding a names map is still within the JSON. But the checker's driver "reads it; a program builds the Prolog file from it" — unknown fields might break it or be ignored. Safer: exactly the template fields. Nine fields. Final.

Now line ids: `account`, `window`, `letter`, `opening`, `dry`, `predry`, `because`. Short lower-case words with no spaces, no trailing underscore+number. Good.

Wait — "because" as an id. That's fine (a word). OK.

Now Prolog clauses. Every clause must have `line(<its own id>)` as its first body goal.

account: 
- `kind(account, account) :- line(account).`
- `body(account, not_stated) :- line(account).`

window:
- `kind(window, window) :- line(window).`
- `body(window, not_stated) :- line(window).`

letter:
- `kind(letter, letter) :- line(letter).`
- `body(letter, not_stated) :- line(letter).`

opening:
- `holds(opened(window)) :- line(opening).`

dry:
- `holds(stayed_dry(letter)) :- line(dry).`

predry:
- `holds(dry(letter)) :- line(predry).`

because:
- `claim_because(because, stayed_dry(letter), opened(window)) :- line(because).`

Good — effect/cause terms match the holds(...) of the lines they point at. 

Now the text field format: "[<standing>] <the line in the language's words>". So e.g. "[GIVEN] account is an account; it answers a press as one of the six response classes: not stated". Let me phrase the thing line as the language defines: "NAME is a KIND; it answers a press as one of the six response classes". So: "account is an account; it answers a press as: not stated".

Let me write: "[GIVEN] account is an account; it answers a press as not stated".

Hmm, the example wrote: "[GIVEN] account is an account; response to a press not stated". Let me follow that phrasing for consistency. Actually I'll write "[GIVEN] account is an account; it answers a press as one of the six response classes: not stated" — too long. Let me use the example's phrasing: "response to a press not stated". Fine.

Actually the language says the thing line shape is: "NAME is a KIND; it answers a press as one of the six response classes; it may be a DOER". So: "window is a window; it answers a press as: not stated". I'll write "window is a window; it answers a press as not stated".

Let me settle on: "NAME is a KIND; it answers a press as not stated".

For TOLD lines, the text includes the standing prefix: "[TOLD in world account_world] window is a window; it answers a press as not stated".

Also the `case` and `case_kind` fields for TOLD/SUPPOSED lines.

Now the table (section 1). Columns: Number | Standing | Content | Source mark | Sentence.

Rows:
| account | GIVEN | account is an account; it answers a press as not stated | said | 1 |
| window | TOLD in world account_world | window is a window; it answers a press as not stated | said | 1 |
| letter | TOLD in world account_world | letter is a letter; it answers a press as not stated | said | 1 |
| opening | TOLD in world account_world | window was opened; opener not named | said | 1 |
| predry | TOLD in world account_world | letter was dry at the stage before the opening | filled in | 1 |
| dry | TOLD in world account_world | letter stayed dry | said | 1 |
| because | TOLD in world account_world | line dry BECAUSE line opening | said | 1 |

Order: put predry before dry? Actually the sentence order: "opening the window caused the letter to stay dry" — opening first, then the dryness. predry is a presupposition of "stay dry". Let me order: account, window, letter, opening, predry, dry, because. Hmm, predry before dry makes sense (prior state). OK.

Hmm, but actually "predry" content "letter was dry at the stage before the opening" — "the stage before the opening" names a stage. Rule 13 allows stages named in facts. OK.

Hmm, but is this over-reach? Let me reconsider ONE final time... 

Ugh. OK. Think about what a checker would do with `holds(dry(letter))` in account_world alongside `holds(stayed_dry(letter))`. Nothing bad. And it records a real presupposition. And it's marked filled in so the checker knows it's my guess. It satisfies "Nothing is dropped silently."

But here's a counter: rule 9 "An added line... may not be the claimed line in other words". "letter was dry before the opening" is arguably part of the claimed line decomposed. Hmm. It's not "in other words" of "letter stayed dry" — it's one component's presupposition. I think it's fine.

Alternatively I could skip it and just note in readings. Hmm.

Decision: include it. It's marked "filled in", it's a genuine presupposition, and the trap section warns about "Letting the bin grow unnoticed" not about extra filled-in lines... Actually there's a warning about added lines doing the writer's work. But this isn't doing argumentative work.

Hmm, OK but actually, thinking about it more from the "clean report" standpoint — an unnecessary filled-in line is a minor liability. But the instructions emphasize completeness ("Nothing is dropped silently"). Including it with a reading note is the most transparent.

FINAL: include `predry`, filled in.

Hmm, hold on. Let me reconsider one thing though: is "before the opening" a "when" that's outside the language? "When, beyond the order of a chain and the stage named in a fact." So stages named in facts ARE allowed. "the stage before the opening" names a stage. OK, allowed. Good.

Now section 2: The bin. One entry.

Section 3: Words I split. None. I'll write "None."

Section 4: Readings I chose.

Section 5: The count.

Then PARKED (the parking place) — at the very end, one line each. Is there anything to park? "Judgements about whether the writer's reasoning is good, and ideas for procedures, graphs, algorithms or scoring." Hmm. Is there a judgement about the writer's reasoning? The sentence reports a causal claim from an account; whether the reasoning is good... I could note: "The sentence reports a causal claim without giving any mechanism or rule; whether the account's causal claim is well supported cannot be judged from this text." Hmm — that's arguably a translation matter (bin/note) not a parking matter.

Hmm, the PARKED list is "at the very end". But the closing line is "TRANSLATION COMPLETE." The task says "Close with: TRANSLATION COMPLETE." and the parking place says "at the very end, one line each. Then return to the line in hand." Hmm — "at the very end" of the output? Then return to the line in hand (i.e., continue translating). Since we're printing, I think PARKED goes after section 5 and before TRANSLATION COMPLETE? Or after? 

"Close with: TRANSLATION COMPLETE. Then wait." and "Judgements ... go in a PARKED list at the very end, one line each."

Hmm, conflicting. I think PARKED is a section that can appear at the end. To be safe, I'll put PARKED after section 5 and before the closing "TRANSLATION COMPLETE" line... Hmm, but "at the very end" suggests after everything.

Hmm. Let me think: "The parking place ... go in a PARKED list at the very end, one line each. Then return to the line in hand." — this is an instruction about where to put them while working (don't derail; park and return). "Print your output in exactly this form" lists 5 sections then "Close with: TRANSLATION COMPLETE." Since the output form is "exactly this form" with 5 sections and closing line, and PARKED is mentioned separately... 

I'll include a PARKED section right before TRANSLATION COMPLETE. Hmm, or make it empty? If I have nothing to park, I can say "PARKED: (nothing to park.)".

Actually, is there anything to park? Let me think. The text is a single sentence reporting a causal claim. Possible parked note: "Whether the account's causal claim is well supported is not assessable from this single reported sentence; no mechanism is given." Hmm, but that's arguably a translation observation.

Actually, hmm — I don't want to invent criticism. But the parking place explicitly invites "Judgements about whether the writer's reasoning is good". I could park one line: "The reported causal claim gives no mechanism or rule linking the opening to the dryness; judging it is beyond this translation." Hmm.

Hmm, but this is exactly the kind of thing the checker would say ("follows only on assumptions nobody stated" / "jump"). Parking it might be redundant. But it's invited.

Let me park one line — it's harmless and shows engagement. Actually, the instruction says judgements "go in a PARKED list" — meaning if I have such judgements, park them rather than acting on them. If I have none, empty list is fine.

I'll include one parked line since I do have a passing thought. Actually, let me include it — it's low risk.

Hmm, one risk: the checker might be confused. But PARKED is not part of the JSON. Fine.

Let me write: "PARKED: The causal claim is reported with no mechanism or rule stated; whether the account's reasoning is good cannot be judged here."

OK.

Now, also — should the JSON include the parked stuff? No.

Now the "leftover" array: "one string per bin entry: 'Sentence 3: <words> — <reason>'". So one string matching the bin entry.

Let me now also double-check the "whose" field: "<your name, the model you are>, under L82". I'm the translator — what model am I? I should name myself. The examples say "Astra Ultra, under L72" and "OpenAI Codex, under L66 (example for L82)". I'm Claude (Anthropic). Let me write: "Claude (Anthropic), under L82". Hmm, "under L82" is specified. The prompt doesn't give me an L82, but the field says "under L82". I'll write "Claude, Anthropic, under L82".

Also "paragraph": "<the text's id>" — the text is B98. So "B98".

Let me also handle: the guide's whatifs entry has "whose": "<you>, sentence N line j". No what-ifs here → empty array.

Now, sentence 1 verbatim: "The account says opening the window caused the letter to stay dry."

Let me now write the output.

Section 1 — The ledger table.

Section 2 — The bin.

Bin entry words: "The account says". Reason: "Attribution — it reports rather than asserts; under the rule for who reports what it scopes the reported content to world account_world. The account's existence is taken as GIVEN; nothing here claims anything about the actual world beyond that there is an account."

Hmm — but is the account's existence claimed or given? Let me settle: GIVEN. The sentence presupposes an account. Per rule 4, presupposition = GIVEN. OK.

Section 3 — Words I split: None.

Section 4 — Readings I chose.

1. "Sentence 1: 'The account says ...' — the readings: (a) the writer merely reports an account's claim and does not assert it themselves; (b) the writer adopts the claim. Taken: (a); the attribution words go to the bin and the whole content is TOLD in world account_world, per the rule for who reports what."

2. "Sentence 1: 'opening the window' — no doer is named. The readings: (a) a happening with an invented doer added; (b) the fact 'window was opened'. Taken: (b), so no person is invented and the verb keeps its own shape."

3. "Sentence 1: 'caused' — the readings: (a) production → BECAUSE; (b) a reason to expect → SINCE; (c) a standing general MAKES rule. Taken: (a); a general rule would supply the premise of the very claim being checked (rule 9)."

4. "Sentence 1: 'stay dry' — the readings: (a) the letter was dry and remained dry through the opening; (b) simply the letter was dry. Taken: (a); the prior state is written as filled-in line predry with its stage named, and the persistence is line dry."

5. "Sentence 1: the press responses of account, window and letter — the readings: guess a response class (fixed / heavy and loose / light and loose) or write 'not stated'. Taken: 'not stated', since the text says nothing and a guessed class would be a filled-in line (rule 3)."

6. Slips of spelling: none noticed. Maybe add: "Sentence 1: no spelling slips; all words read literally."

Section 5 — The count:
- lines said: 6
- lines filled in: 1
- lines usual case: 0
- sentences that lost something to the bin: 1 (sentence 1)

Total lines: 7.

Let me write it out.

Now, one more consideration: Should `because` line's standing be "TOLD in world account_world"? Yes.

And should there be a CLAIMED/GIVEN line at the actual level for "the account says"? I decided no (attribution to bin). But then only `account` thing line at actual level. Fine.

Hmm, wait. Actually, let me reconsider: the fact that the writer asserts "the account says X" — that IS a claim of the writer. If I bin it entirely, the actual ledger has just "account is an account". Is that "dropping something silently"? No — it's in the bin with a reason. And rule 16 says whatever cannot be written goes in the bin with the reason. Here it CAN'T be written as a line without restating content (rule 10: claims about lines point, don't restate) — well, actually a kind-13 line could be "the account's telling" but there's no form for "X says Y" in the fourteen kinds other than TOLD.

Actually, could I write it as a Fact: "account says [that opening the window caused the letter to stay dry]"? That would restate the content. Hmm. Or "account states causal_claim" — a fact with a placeholder? That seems like inventing.

Hmm. Actually the example (which is the model) binned it. I'll do the same. And I'll say in the reason why it can't be a line: the language has no content form for "X reports Y"; the content itself is recorded as TOLD.

Good.

Now let me also double check the requirement: "Every line has all five parts." Yes.

"Every thing has one name, used throughout." account, window, letter. Yes.

Let me write the final output.

For the JSON, "text" field: "[<standing>] <the line in the language's words>".

Let me write the lines' text carefully:
- account: "[GIVEN] account is an account; it answers a press as not stated"
- window: "[TOLD in world account_world] window is a window; it answers a press as not stated"
- letter: "[TOLD in world account_world] letter is a letter; it answers a press as not stated"
- opening: "[TOLD in world account_world] window was opened; opener not named"
- predry: "[TOLD in world account_world] letter was dry at the stage before the opening (the state 'stay' presupposes); added part: the prior dryness and its stage"
- dry: "[TOLD in world account_world] letter stayed dry"
- because: "[TOLD in world account_world] line dry BECAUSE line opening"

Hmm for predry — rule 15: "One line, one source mark. Where part was said and part is your choice, split the line if you can. If you cannot, mark the whole line filled in and say in it which part you added." The whole line is filled in here. And I should say which part I added. Since it's all filled in... "say in the line which part you added" — I added the decomposition of 'stay dry' into prior dryness. Let me note: "; added: the prior-dryness presupposition of 'stay' and the named stage".

OK.

Let me finalize.

Also for the Content column in the table — the "content" is the line. I'll put the line's content (without the standing prefix) there? Or with? The table columns are Number | Standing | Content | Source mark | Sentence. The Content is "one of the fourteen kinds below" and its shape. Hmm, in the example line: "6 | CLAIMED | sally MOVES away from wall, as a result of happening p1 | said | sentence 2". So Content = the line's text without the standing. Good.

I'll write Content as the line in the language's words (kind + shape). E.g. "Thing: account is an account; it answers a press as not stated".

Hmm, the example content just wrote the content: "sally MOVES away from wall, as a result of happening p1" — that's the Result shape. So Content = the line text. I'll prefix with the kind name for clarity? The example didn't. Let me just write the content text. Actually, adding the kind helps a reader. But the example format... let me include the kind in parentheses for clarity. Hmm, "print exactly what the task and the guide ask for". The task says the table has those columns and "Every line gets all five parts from the language definition: number, standing, content, source mark, sentence." Content is "one of the fourteen kinds below" — it's what is being recorded. I'll write the content in the language's words and note the kind. Let me write: "Thing — account is an account; it answers a press as not stated". That's clear and complete. I think that's good.

Hmm, but to be safest and match the example, maybe just the content. I'll include the kind as a leading label — it aids the checker/reader and doesn't remove anything. I'll do it.

Let me write it all out now.

Final count check:
said: account, window, letter, opening, dry, because = 6
filled in: predry = 1
usual case: 0
Total = 7
Sentences: 1 (sentence 1)
Sentences losing to bin: 1 (sentence 1)

Alright. Writing now.