Let me work through this carefully.

The text (B01):

"The farm foreman kept notes on his evening rounds. He wrote that the shepherd had concluded the flock must be in the top field, since the gate stood open, and the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it. The foreman added, from what he saw himself, that the lower field was empty of grass. The note ended with the time the rounds had finished."

Sentences: 4.

Sentence 1: "The farm foreman kept notes on his evening rounds."
Sentence 2: "He wrote that the shepherd had concluded the flock must be in the top field, since the gate stood open, and the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it."
Sentence 3: "The foreman added, from what he saw himself, that the lower field was empty of grass."
Sentence 4: "The note ended with the time the rounds had finished."

Structure: There's a report world — the note/notes kept by the foreman. So the note's contents are TOLD in world "note_world". The outer facts (foreman kept notes, note ended with time) are actual ledger, CLAIMED.

Sentence 1: "The farm foreman kept notes on his evening rounds." — CLAIMED in actual. Things: foreman (a person, heavy and standing), notes (a body? notes are... light and loose? Actually "not stated" is safest, but notes are a body — a physical thing. Kind: note. Response class: light and loose? Hmm. Let me use "not stated" — text does not say. Actually the text says nothing about how notes answer a press. I'll say "not stated". Hmm, but a note is a physical object... "light and loose" (a ball, a coin) is an example of the class, but I shouldn't guess. Rule 3: "If the text does not say how it answers a press, write 'not stated'. A class you guess is a filled-in line." So "not stated" is safest and is what the rule says. Good.

Things per sentence:
S1: foreman, notes (the note book/notes), evening rounds (happening? "evening rounds" is the occasion of the keeping). Let me make happenings:
- p1: foreman kept notes — Happening: foreman KEPT notes. Verb "kept" — shape? The shape book lists throw, toss, hurl (press then release); push, pull, lean on, hit (press); drop, let go of, open a fist on (release); hold, close a fist on (hold). "keep" is a verb — its shape is not in the shape book. So it's reported "not checked" and counted. Hmm, "keep" → shape not in shape book → "not checked". Actually I could read "kept notes" as a fact: "foreman kept notes on his evening rounds" — fact "foreman kept notes". Simpler: write it as a Fact: "foreman kept notes on his evening rounds" — Facts are free descriptions. That avoids the verb-shape problem... but the task says "Happenings. Write who did what to what, and which way, using the text's own verb." Hmm. The happening approach is for physical doings. "kept notes" is a doing. But the ledger language is focused on presses and movements. I think using a Fact is acceptable and cleaner — "THING plus any plain description". But then "who did what to what" is lost.

Let me think: the text is prose about a foreman writing notes. Physical happenings of pressing things are minimal. The main content is the told-world content (what the note says) and a SINCE argument.

I'll write happenings where there are verbs of doing (wrote, added, ended), with verb shapes marked "not checked" for verbs outside the shape book. Actually, the checker reports "not checked" and counts them — that's fine and honest. But it adds noise. Alternatively use facts.

Let me use a mix: Facts for descriptive content ("the gate stood open", "the lower field was empty of grass", "the flock is in the top field"), and happenings where a doing with an object occurs (foreman wrote note; foreman added content to note; note ended with time).

Hmm. Let me decide: I'll use Facts for state descriptions and Happenings for doings with verbs. Verbs "keep", "write", "add", "end", "drive", "leave", "conclude" — none in the shape book. I'll record each as a happening with "verb has no shape; not checked" noted. Actually the shape book: "A verb missing from the shape book is reported 'not checked' and counted." That's the checker's job. In the Prolog, happenings... hmm, what clauses does a happening get? Looking at the encoding guide's Prolog vocabulary — there's no explicit "happening" predicate listed except through produced/depends and results. Results: "THING MOVES direction, STAYS, TOUCHES thing, or BECOMES [description], as a result of happening NAME". Hmm.

Given the Prolog vocabulary has no happening predicate per se, maybe things like "foreman wrote the note" would be `holds(wrote(foreman, note))`. Let me keep it simple and treat most content as facts (holds(...)), with the causal/reasoning claims as claim_since/claim_because. That's what the examples do — example_A has "the cold reached the balcony plants" as holds(...). Fine.

But the task (39) says write happenings "who did what to what, and which way, using the text's own verb". I'll write happening lines for the doings, with verb shapes noted as not in the shape book (to bin? "the verbs with no shape" is listed in the report). Let me write them as Happening lines in the table with content shape "p1: foreman KEEPS notes [no direction]" and note the shape absence. And in Prolog use holds(...) fact terms. Hmm, is that consistent? The guide says every clause of a line has line(id) as first body goal — fine.

Actually, let me reconsider to keep it clean and defensible. The essential content of this text:

1. Foreman kept notes on evening rounds. (CLAIMED, actual)
2. The note says: the shepherd concluded [the flock is in the top field] SINCE [the gate stood open] and [general: the shepherd always left the gate open only once the flock had been driven through it].
3. The foreman added, from his own seeing, that the lower field is empty of grass. — this is TOLD in note world too (it's in the note), but its source is the foreman's own observation.
4. The note ended with the time the rounds had finished. (CLAIMED, actual) — "the time" is a number/time → outside the language → bin. But the fact "note ended with the time the rounds had finished" — the content "the rounds had finished" is a fact. The specific time is outside the language (when, beyond order of a chain) → bin.

Now the told world: "note_world" — what the note says. Lines TOLD in world note_world:
- shepherd exists (thing)
- flock exists (thing)
- gate exists (thing)
- top field exists (thing)
- lower field exists (thing)
- flock is in the top field (fact) — the shepherd's conclusion. Hmm, careful: "the shepherd had concluded the flock must be in the top field" — the attribution "the shepherd had concluded" goes to the bin per rule "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." So there are two levels: the note world (what the note says) and the shepherd's conclusion. Per the rule: "write the content as TOLD in that person's world." So the shepherd's conclusion content is TOLD in a world named for the shepherd — e.g. "shepherd's thinking". But also the note says it. Hmm, nested worlds: "A case inside a case" is a trap for cases; told worlds — the note reports the shepherd's conclusion. 

Let me think about how many worlds. The note (foreman's note) is a TOLD world: "note_world". Inside the note, the foreman reports (a) the shepherd's conclusion, (b) his own observation. The observation is attributed to "from what he saw himself" — that's a source attribution → bin; the content "lower field was empty of grass" is TOLD in note_world.

For the shepherd's conclusion: rule says "Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." So I write the content as TOLD in world "shepherd's thinking" (or "shepherd's conclusion"). But it's also in the note world. Hmm — the content is stated in the note as the shepherd's conclusion. Two options: TOLD in note_world (the note says it) or TOLD in shepherd_world (the shepherd concluded it). The rule directs: attribution to bin, content as TOLD in that person's world. So I'll put the conclusion content and its reasons in world "shepherd's reasoning" — but then the note's own commitment... 

Actually careful reading: "He wrote that the shepherd had concluded the flock must be in the top field, since the gate stood open, and the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it."

The "since" gives the shepherd's reason. So the whole reasoning (gate open; general rule; conclusion) belongs to the shepherd's conclusion. The note commits the foreman to having written that the shepherd concluded this — but the foreman does not commit to the shepherd's conclusion being true. So the correct handling: the note (note_world) contains a report of the shepherd's conclusion; the conclusion's content is TOLD in "shepherd's thinking" world. Since a told world doesn't inherit anything and is looked at alone, I need to state inside shepherd's thinking world every fact its argument needs.

But then what is in note_world? The note says (i) the shepherd concluded X SINCE Y, (ii) the lower field was empty of grass (foreman's own sight), (iii) the note ended with the time the rounds finished (which is a structural note — arguably actual: the note ended with the time... that's the foreman's doing, stated by the narrator — CLAIMED actual).

Hmm. Let me structure:

Actual ledger (CLAIMED/GIVEN):
- L1 (thing): foreman is a person; heavy and standing; DOER.
- L2 (thing): notes is a note; response not stated. — Actually "notes" plural; name it "note". The text uses "notes" then "the note". Same thing? "kept notes" ... "The note ended". Likely the same record. I'll name it "note" and record the reading (plural notes = the note record). Words split? "notes" as records/observations — no split needed. But I'll note in readings.
- Happening p1: foreman KEPT note [occasion: evening rounds]. Actually "on his evening rounds" — when → bin? "When, beyond the order of a chain and the stage named in a fact" goes to bin. Evening rounds is a time/occasion → the phrase "on his evening rounds" is a time → bin. But also "the rounds had finished" appears in sentence 4 — the rounds is a thing/event. Hmm: "the note ended with the time the rounds had finished." The rounds finished — that's a happening. Let me keep "rounds" as a thing/event.

Let me lay out sentences and lines.

Sentence 1: "The farm foreman kept notes on his evening rounds."
- thing line: foreman is a person (heavy and standing; DOER) — said.
- thing line: note is a note; response to a press not stated — said (from "notes").
- thing line: rounds is an event (evening rounds) — hmm, is "rounds" a thing? Rounds are the foreman's walk; an event. Actually in sentence 4 "the rounds had finished" — rounds as an event with a finish. I can name "rounds" as a thing of kind "rounds" with not stated response. Simpler: treat "rounds" as an event name: EVENT rounds is happenings ... no, we don't know its happenings. Let me give rounds a thing line: rounds is an event; response to a press not stated. Hmm, "event" as a kind is fine (kind is a free name).
- Happening p1: foreman KEEPS note. Verb "keep" not in shape book → not checked. Direction: none stated (or "on rounds" is occasion → bin).
- Fact f1: note was kept on foreman's evening rounds → the "when" is outside the language → bin ("on his evening rounds": time/occasion). But I could put "foreman's rounds" as the thing and "foreman kept note as part of rounds". Let me do: happening p1: foreman KEPT note [occasion: rounds]; and bin "on his evening rounds" as timing words (evening = time of day → outside).

Hmm, but "his evening rounds" — the rounds are the foreman's rounds and in the evening. "his" ownership → outside the language (who believes... no; "his" possession — probably fine to note foreman relates to rounds). Let me simplify: thing line for rounds: "rounds is a rounds event; response to a press not stated; doer foreman" hmm.

Let me not overcomplicate. I'll treat "evening rounds" as a stage/occasion fact: "the note-keeping happened during the foreman's evening rounds" — but "during/when" is outside → bin. I'll bin "on his evening rounds" with reason: time and occasion of the keeping; the language records only order of a chain and stages named in facts, so the timing words go here. But the rounds are still referenced in sentence 4 ("the rounds had finished"), so rounds must be a named thing to link. I'll create thing line for rounds (said) — "rounds is an event of the foreman; response to a press not stated" and "foreman does rounds" as a fact.

Sentence 2: "He wrote that the shepherd had concluded the flock must be in the top field, since the gate stood open, and the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it."

Actual: happening p2: foreman WROTE note (he wrote [it] that ...). Actually "He wrote that P" — the writing is actual (the foreman's note says it), and P is told in note_world. Per example_T10D: "The account says" attribution → bin, and the content TOLD in account_world; account existence GIVEN. Here the writing is itself asserted by the narrator: "He wrote that..." — the narrator asserts the foreman wrote it. So the happening "foreman wrote note" is CLAIMED actual, and the content is TOLD in note_world.

Hmm, but what exactly is in note_world? The note says: the shepherd had concluded [the flock is in the top field] since [the gate stood open] and [the shepherd always left the gate open only once the flock had been driven through it].

Per the "who believes/wants/concludes" rule, the attribution "the shepherd had concluded" goes to the bin and the content is written as TOLD in that person's world ("shepherd's thinking"). So:

World "note_world" (what the note says):
- the note records that the shepherd concluded something (the attribution → bin, content → shepherd world).

Hmm, this creates awkwardness: if the attribution is binned and the content goes to the shepherd's world, then note_world would contain almost nothing of sentence 2 except the bare report. Let me think about what's cleanest and most faithful.

Option A: two told worlds:
- world "note_world": what the foreman's note says (sentence 2's report frame, sentence 3's observation content).
- world "shepherd's thinking": the shepherd's conclusion and its reason.

But nested told worlds — the language says named cases are one level deep ("A case inside a case" is a trap). For told worlds it says "A told world is looked at alone. It does not inherit the actual ledger". It doesn't say worlds nest. Safer: keep it one level: the note world and the shepherd's thinking world as siblings, both TOLD, each looked at alone. The note world would say: "the note records shepherd_conclusion_report" — hmm.

Alternative Option B: one told world "note_world" containing the note's whole content including the shepherd's conclusion content and its reason, with the attribution "the shepherd had concluded" binned and the fact that these are the shepherd's reason noted. Then the checker tests the SINCE inside note_world. That's simpler and the checker's told-world checks (SINCE included) run there.

But the task's rule says explicitly: "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." That directs the content to the shepherd's world. Hmm. But also the note asserts these things (as reports). The sentence is "He wrote that the shepherd had concluded ... since ...". The note's content includes that the shepherd concluded. The foreman is reporting, not asserting the flock's location.

I think the cleanest faithful reading: two worlds.

- world "note_world" (what the note says): includes the fact that the shepherd concluded (attribution content? no...). 

Hmm. Let me re-read: "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." — So for "the shepherd had concluded P SINCE C": attribution ("the shepherd had concluded") → bin; content "P SINCE C" → TOLD in world shepherd's thinking. The note-world's involvement: the note says the shepherd concluded. Since we bin the attribution but note it scopes the content to the shepherd's world, the note's only content of sentence 2 is that report, which is captured by the bin entry and the shepherd-world lines. That matches example_T10D: "The account says" → bin, "reason: The attribution is retained here and scopes all reported contents to account_world." and the content lines are TOLD in account_world. In T10D, "the account says opening caused dryness" — the content lines were TOLD in account_world directly (not in a nested "someone's thinking" world). Here, the note is like "the account", and within it there's a further attribution (the shepherd's conclusion).

Given the trap list doesn't forbid nested told worlds (only nested cases), and the rule explicitly says write conclusion content as TOLD in that person's world, I'll do:

- world "note_world": the note's own content: (a) the foreman's own sight content (lower field empty of grass) — attributed "from what he saw himself" → bin, content TOLD in note_world (it's the foreman's observation reported in his own note — so it can be in note_world directly); (b) the note's report of the shepherd's conclusion — but this is captured by the attribution.

Hmm, wait. Actually the "from what he saw himself" is also an attribution of source, not of belief content — the foreman asserts it on his own authority. In example_T10D style, "The account says" scope → account_world. Here "The foreman added, from what he saw himself, that the lower field was empty of grass" → the content is TOLD in note_world (the note says it). The "from what he saw himself" phrase goes to the bin (source attribution / who knows what — "Who believes, knows or wants what" is outside the language).

OK here's my plan — I'll use two told worlds: `note_world` (the note's record) and `shepherd_world` (the shepherd's thinking). Lines:

Actual ledger:
1. thing: foreman is a person (heavy and standing, DOER) — said, s1.
2. thing: note is a note; response to a press not stated — said, s1.
3. thing: rounds is an event; response to a press not stated — said (from "evening rounds" s1 and "the rounds" s4). Maybe fill in kind "event" — hmm, kind is a free name from text; "rounds" is the text's word. kind(rounds, rounds). Fine, mark "said".
4. p1: foreman KEPT note — happening, s1. Verb "keep" has no shape → not checked.
 Also relation to rounds: fact "note was kept during foreman's rounds" — the "when" is outside → bin "on his evening rounds" (time/occasion). But the link foreman–rounds is a thing relation: "foreman does rounds" — hmm. I'd rather write: Fact f1: "the foreman's evening rounds were the occasion of p1" — time → bin. Let me do a fact: "note-keeping happened on rounds" as a fact with mark "filled in"? Simpler: bin the phrase "on his evening rounds" as timing outside the language, but still give rounds a thing line (needed for sentence 4). But rule: "Every sentence of the text appears in the ledger, in the bin, or in both." Fine — sentence 1 is in the ledger (p1) and in the bin (the timing phrase).

Actually, I could write a Fact: "note was kept as part of rounds" and bin "evening". Hmm. Let me write fact f1: "foreman kept note during rounds" and bin the word "evening" (time of day) and "his" (possession)... no, "his" is just reference to foreman. I'll write p1 with content "p1: foreman KEPT note [during rounds]" — the [during rounds] is the occasion; direction not applicable. Hmm, the Happening shape is "NAME: DOER VERB THING [DIRECTION]". Direction choices: toward X, away from X, up, down, across. "During rounds" isn't a direction. So put it in bin or as a fact. I'll write a fact: f_rounds: "the note-keeping belonged to the foreman's rounds" — filled in. Hmm.

Cleanest: p1: foreman KEPT note. Then bin: "on his evening rounds" — reason: occasion/time of the keeping; the language has no form for when. And a thing line for rounds (said, from sentence 1 and 4) so sentence 4's reference works. Plus a fact line "the rounds finished" from sentence 4.

Sentence 4: "The note ended with the time the rounds had finished."
- p2 (or p3): note ENDED — happening? Or fact: "note ended with a record of the finish time of rounds". Content parts: (a) the note ended (fact/happening), (b) the note records the time at which rounds finished → the specific time is a number/when → bin; the fact "rounds had finished" is a plain fact (staged: rounds finished, stage: after the note-keeping? Actually "the rounds had finished" — stage). Let me write:
  - Fact f_end: "note ended" (said). Or happening p_end: note ENDED [no thing]? A happening needs DOER VERB THING. "The note ended" is a single-thing change → a Fact is fine: "note ended". Or a Result: "note BECAME ended as a result of happening..." needs a happening. I'll use a Fact: "note ended".
  - Fact f_rounds_done: "rounds finished" — stage: before the note's end (had finished = prior). Hmm, "Stages. When a thing's state changes in the text, put the stage in the fact: the door open in the morning..." So: f: "rounds finished [stage: before the note ended]". Actually the stage naming in the example is about times of day. Here "had finished" (past perfect) marks the stage relative to the note's ending. I'll write "rounds finished at a stage before the note ended" and mark filled in? The tense says it. Mark said, with the stage in the fact. Let me write: "rounds finished [stage: before the note's end]".
  - Bin: "the time the rounds had finished" as recorded content — the actual time value (a number/when) is outside the language → bin the words "with the time". So the fact "the note ended with the time [value]" → bin the recording of the specific time.

Sentence 3: "The foreman added, from what he saw himself, that the lower field was empty of grass."
- Actual: p_add: foreman ADDED [content] to note. Verb "add" not in shape book.
- Content: "lower field is empty of grass" → TOLD in note_world.
- "from what he saw himself" → bin (source attribution: who knows/saw what).
- Things: lower field is a field; response not stated (a field — is it "fixed (a wall)"? A field is ground; but guessing → "not stated" safest). grass is grass; not stated.

Sentence 2 details — the told content in shepherd_world:
- thing: shepherd is a person; heavy and standing; DOER. — TOLD in shepherd_world? Hmm, the shepherd exists in the note's world too. Let me think about where things live. Things mentioned in the told content belong to the told world. I'll put shepherd, flock, gate, top field as things TOLD in shepherd_world (the conclusion's world), since the conclusion and reason are there. But the note also mentions them... but we've put sentence 2's content in shepherd_world.

Hmm wait. Let me reconsider whether to have note_world at all with content. Sentence 2's content is entirely "the shepherd had concluded [P since C]". If the attribution is binned and the content goes to shepherd_world, then note_world holds only sentence 3's content ("lower field is empty of grass") and maybe sentence 4's record.

But hold on — is the "lower field is empty of grass" content the foreman's belief (→ foreman's world) or the note's content (→ note_world)? The foreman wrote it in his note. Rule 39: "what a story, report, note, letter, speech or dream says as TOLD in a named world of its own" — the note says it → TOLD in note_world. The "from what he saw himself" is an attribution of the source of knowledge → bin ("Who believes, knows or wants what"). So content → note_world. Good.

And for sentence 2: "He wrote that the shepherd had concluded ..." — the note says that the shepherd concluded P. Following the rule "who concludes what: send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world": the content P SINCE C is TOLD in shepherd_world. The bin entry records that the note attributes this conclusion to the shepherd (and that the note's saying so is the reason for the shepherd_world).

So I have two told worlds: note_world and shepherd_world. Both looked at alone. Fine.

Now shepherd_world content (sentence 2):
Things (TOLD in shepherd_world):
- shepherd is a person (heavy and standing; DOER) — actually the shepherd is named in the note/actual too ("the shepherd always left that gate open"). Hmm — that general rule about the shepherd is part of the shepherd's reason ("since ... the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it"). It's inside the shepherd's conclusion's reason. So TOLD in shepherd_world.
- flock is a flock; response to a press not stated. A flock is a group of sheep... "heavy and loose"? Guess → not stated. Fine.
- gate is a gate; response to a press not stated. Hmm, "fixed (a wall)"? A gate that stands open — a gate can be pressed/moved. Not stated.
- top_field is a field; not stated.

Facts:
- fl_top: "flock is in the top field" — the conclusion content. Note: the text says "the flock must be in the top field" — "must" is outside the language (may, must, should...) → bin "must". The content asserted by the shepherd's conclusion: "flock is in the top field". Hmm — but is the shepherd claiming it or supposing? "concluded the flock must be in the top field" — he concluded it, so in his world it's CLAIMED (well, TOLD standing). Write as TOLD fact: "flock is in the top field". And bin "must" (modal, outside the language).

- gate_open: "gate stood open" — fact, stage: "stood open" at the time of the shepherd's reasoning. Stages: put stage in fact: "gate open [stage: at the time of the shepherd's reasoning]" — hmm, maybe "gate was open [stage: when the shepherd reasoned]". Let me write "gate stood open [stage: at the shepherd's reasoning]" and mark said. Actually, to keep simple: "gate was open [stage: time of the shepherd's conclusion]". OK.

- The general line: "the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it."

This is an "only once" — an only-ways line? Let's parse: "the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it." Meaning: The shepherd left the gate open only in the case where the flock had been driven through it. I.e., leaving the gate open NEEDS the flock having been driven through it (one-way: leaving open → requires driven through). And "always ... only once" = ALWAYS: when [shepherd leaves gate open], then [flock has been driven through the gate]. Is it ALWAYS or USUALLY? "always" → ALWAYS. Direction: leaving open → driven through. Is it MAKES or SHOWS? It's a rule letting one thing be read off another (seeing the gate open shows the flock was driven through), not a cause producing an effect. Actually the shepherd's inference uses it as SHOWS: gate open ⇒ flock driven through. But "the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it" describes his habit — his practice. Hmm, it's a habit/regularity: he left it open only after driving the flock through. As an inference rule it SHOWS.

Rule: "Every general line says MAKES or SHOWS. If the text does not settle it, the choice is a filled-in line." Here, the shepherd's use is as a sign → SHOWS. Does the text settle it? "always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it" — it describes a habit (USUALLY line per kind 3: "THING usually DOES VERB THING on occasions of KIND"). Hmm — kind 3 Habit: "THING usually DOES VERB THING on occasions of KIND" — "the shepherd usually leaves the gate open on occasions of flock-driven-through". But the text says "always". So it's a general line ALWAYS...Actually the language's kind 3 Habit is a USUALLY line over occasions of the SHOWS kind. Here the word "always" marks ALWAYS. But the sentence structure "always left that gate open only once X" is a conditional: leaving open happens only when X. That's an only-ways line (kind 8): [shepherd leaves gate open] NEEDS ONE OF: [flock driven through gate]. And only-ways lines are "written out as a general line: when every listed way is denied, the content is denied."

Also there's the "only" — no other way. With one way listed, it becomes: ALWAYS: when [the shepherd leaves the gate open], then [the flock has been driven through the gate]. And the converse is not stated.

Hmm, but careful: "the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it" — could also mean: he left it open on every occasion of having driven the flock through (and only then). That's two directions: (a) open ⇒ driven through (the "only once" part), (b) driven through ⇒ open (the "always" part reading "whenever he drove them through, he left it open"). Hmm. Ambiguity! "always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it" — most natural: the only occasion on which he left the gate open was after driving the flock through. So (a) is asserted strongly ("only once"), and (b) — "always" modifies "left ... open only once", meaning: without exception, his leaving-open came only after driving through. I read it as (a) plus an exceptionless quantifier. But one could read "always ... once X" = "whenever X, he left it open".This is a genuine ambiguity → "Readings I chose" section. I'll take the reading: leaving the gate open requires the flock having been driven through it (one direction), marked ALWAYS, and note the other reading in Readings I chose. And since the direction matters for the argument (the shepherd infers: gate open ⇒ flock driven through ⇒ flock in top field?), I'll write the one-way ALWAYS line: "ALWAYS: when [the shepherd leaves gate open], then [the flock has been driven through the gate]" — SHOWS (sign) — hmm or MAKES?

Let's think: The shepherd's reasoning: gate stood open (fact). General: shepherd leaves gate open only once flock driven through. Conclusion: flock must be in the top field. Wait — the conclusion is "flock is in the top field", but the reason chain gives "flock has been driven through the gate". There's a missing step: driving the flock through the gate puts the flock in the top field (the gate leads to the top field). That's a jump — missing line! I should write it as a filled-in line: "ALWAYS/whatever: when [flock is driven through the gate], then [flock is in the top field]" — but the text says nothing about where the gate leads. Hmm. But wait — "that gate" — which gate? The gate of the top field presumably. The text says "the gate stood open" and "that gate" — the gate is presumably the top field's gate. Reading: "the flock must be in the top field, since the gate stood open" — the gate in question is the top field's gate. That is a reasonable reading (filled in): "gate is the top field's gate" or "gate belongs to top field". Then "the flock had been driven through it" → into the top field → "flock is in the top field". Missing step: driving through the gate puts the flock in the top field.

The translator's job: write down what the text commits its writer to; the checker reports jumps with candidate missing lines. Should I fill in the missing step? Rule: "When you feel a missing step is obvious: write it as its own line, marked 'filled in'." But also rule 9: "An added line ... may not take the place of the reason the writer actually gives, and may not let the opposite follow just as well."

The step from "driven through the gate" to "in the top field" is the writer's actual gap. If I fill it in as an ALWAYS SHOWS/MAKES line, I'd be doing the writer's work — and the checker's "Added lines alone give the conclusion" finding would fire. Hmm, which is informative. But the translator shouldn't invent content the text doesn't state. The trap says "When you feel a missing step is obvious: write it as its own line, marked 'filled in'." Hmm.

But is it obvious? The gate standing open shows the flock went through the gate — where does the gate lead? Not stated. The text never says the gate is the top field's gate. I think the honest approach: do NOT fill in the missing link; record what's stated, and the checker will report a jump with candidate missing lines. That's precisely what the machinery is for. But the trap instruction nudges toward filling obvious steps.

Hmm. Let me look again at the text: "the shepherd had concluded the flock must be in the top field, since the gate stood open, and the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it."

I think there IS a plausible reading where the gate is the top field's gate and driving through puts them in the top field. But the text is silent. The translator's job is "write down what the text commits its writer to". The writer (foreman? narrator?) commits to the shepherd's reasoning being as stated. The gap in the shepherd's reasoning is real. I'll leave the gap and let the checker report a jump — but hmm, the task says a "good ledger ... could rebuild what the writer committed to". Leaving the gap and recording it as a SINCE claim with the stated reason preserves exactly what's committed.

But wait — the rule about BECAUSE/SINCE: "Use BECAUSE where the text says one thing produced another, and SINCE where it gives a reason to expect or believe." Here "since the gate stood open, and the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it" — the shepherd's reason to believe the conclusion. So SINCE. Good — and SINCE is "tested on what follows by any route, and always reported with its unstated assumptions". That's exactly right for this reasoning.So: claim_since(sh1, flock_in_top_field, gate_stood_open)? But the reason is compound: "the gate stood open" AND "the general rule". SINCE lines point at other lines by number. The reason is a conjunction of two lines: gate_open (fact) and the general line. I can write two SINCE lines? Or one SINCE pointing at both? The kind 13 shape: "line E SINCE line C" — one line C. Hmm. I can write: "line E SINCE line C1" and "line E SINCE line C2"? That would suggest each alone suffices, which is wrong. Alternatively make the reason a single event/general pair... 

Hmm. Let me consider: maybe write the reason as one line? The claim_since prolog: `claim_since(id, <what is expected>, <the reason>) :- line(id).` The reason is a term. I could make the reason a conjunction term: `and(gate_open, only_open_after_driven_through)` — but "Every fact term used in a claim_since ... is spelled exactly as in the holds(...) of the line it points at". Hmm, if the reason involves two lines, the term can't match both exactly.

Options: write two SINCE lines: sh1: E SINCE C1 (gate open) and sh2: E SINCE C2 (the general rule)? That reads as "E since C1" and "E since C2" separately — each claims the reason suffices. Not faithful.

Better: make the reason one fact that combines? Or treat the reason as the general line applied: The real structure: from gate_open + general rule, we get "flock driven through gate", and from that, "flock in top field" (missing step). So the SINCE's reason is really a derived fact. But we can't state derived facts as said content.

Alternative: Write the SINCE with reason being the general-line fact. In Prolog, the general line is a rule `holds(driven_through(flock,gate)) :- line(gen), holds(gate_open_left_by_shepherd(...))`. Hmm.

Let me simplify: Write the reason as a conjunction in one SINCE line pointing at both lines by number in the text field, and in the Prolog use a compound reason term spelled as the conjunction. Hmm, but check 3 of the encoding guide requires exact matching with holds(...) of the line it points at.

Alternative approach: create a filled-in fact line that states the compound reason? No — added lines can't take the place of the reason the writer gives.

Hmm, what about making the general rule's *content* a fact in shepherd_world? The general line IS about the shepherd's habit: "shepherd leaves gate open only after driving flock through". I can express this as a fact about the shepherd's habit? Kind 3 Habit: "THING usually DOES VERB THING on occasions of KIND". Hmm.

Let me step back and consider how the checker works: `claim_since(id, What, Reason)` — it "is tested on what follows by any route, and always reported with its unstated assumptions." So the Reason term is presumably something the checker tries to derive What from. If I use `claim_since(sh1, in(flock,top_field), gate_open(gate))` then the checker will look for a route from `holds(gate_open(gate))` to `in(flock,top_field)` via rules — including the general line rule which derives `driven_through(flock, gate)`, and then, without the missing step, nothing derives `in(flock, top_field)`. So the SINCE is reported as resting on unstated assumptions (the missing step). That's an honest and useful outcome! And the general line is available as a rule in the ledger even if not named in the SINCE's reason term. Hmm, but then the SINCE line claims the reason is just "gate open", which slightly misrepresents ("since the gate stood open, and the general rule").

Alternatively `claim_since(sh1, in(flock,top_field), driven_through(flock,gate))` — reason = the flock having been driven through — but that's not said as a fact (it's derived).

Hmm. What about writing TWO lines: a BECAUSE-ish? No.

Let me reconsider: maybe write the SINCE with the reason being the general rule's content and note in the text field that both the fact and the rule are the reason. Actually — here's a cleaner idea: since the reason is compound, write the line as pointing at both lines: "line E SINCE line C1 and line C2" in the text, and in Prolog, one claim_since clause with reason term `and(gate_open(gate), only_open_after(flock,gate))`... but then check 3 (exact spelling) fails for both component lines.

Hmm, maybe I can add the conjunction as a fact on one line? Like: a filled-in line sh_r: "holds(reason_pair) ..."? Rule 9 forbids added lines taking the place of the writer's reason.

Alternative: split into two SINCE lines with different effects? E.g. intermediate conclusion: "flock has been driven through the gate" SINCE "gate stood open" (using the general rule as background). Then "flock is in the top field" SINCE "flock driven through the gate". But the intermediate "flock driven through the gate" is not asserted by the text — it's implied. Hmm, "the flock must be in the top field, since the gate stood open, and [rule]" — the shepherd's conclusion is only "in the top field". The intermediate is an unstated step. Writing it as a CLAIMED/TOLD line would be inventing content the shepherd didn't state... though it is arguably committed to by the reasoning. Hmm, it's a "missing step" that could be written "filled in" per the trap rule.

I think I'm overengineering. Let me decide:

- sh1 (TOLD in shepherd_world, said): "shepherd concluded flock is in the top field" — content line: "flock is in the top field" — wait, attribution to bin, content as TOLD. So line: "[TOLD in shepherd_world] flock is in the top field".
- sh2 (said): "[TOLD in shepherd_world] gate stood open [stage: at the shepherd's reasoning]".
- sh3 (said): "[TOLD in shepherd_world] ALWAYS: when [the shepherd leaves gate open], then [the flock has been driven through the gate]; SHOWS" — hmm, MAKES or SHOWS? The shepherd's habit statement: "the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it" — this is a rule about his practice used as a sign. I'll mark SHOWS, and mark the choice "filled in"? The task says: "General lines. Mark each as ALWAYS or USUALLY, and as MAKES or SHOWS. When the text leaves that open, choose, and mark your choice 'filled in'." But the line has one source mark. If part is said (the rule content) and part is my choice (SHOWS), rule 15: "Where part was said and part is your choice, split the line if you can. If you cannot, mark the whole line filled in and say in it which part you added."

Hmm — can I split? The rule content is said; the MAKES/SHOWS choice is mine. Splitting would give one line with the content and another with the kind — weird. So mark the whole line "filled in" and say in it which part I added: "[TOLD in shepherd_world] ALWAYS SHOWS: when [the shepherd leaves gate open], then [the flock has been driven through the gate] — content said; the SHOWS kind is the translator's choice". That's per rule 15. Good.

Hmm, but actually — does the text settle MAKES vs SHOWS? "the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it" — leaving open doesn't produce driving through; the driving through precedes. So the rule can't be MAKES in the direction open→driven. If it's about how we can tell: open shows driven through. So SHOWS is the sensible choice. Also as the reverse direction (driven through MAKES/produces leaving open)? Under my chosen reading (only one direction), no.

Now the SINCE line: sh4 (said): "line sh1 SINCE line sh2 and line sh3". Prolog: claim_since(sh4, in(flock,top_field), ...). Hmm.

Let me look at the claim_since shape again: `claim_since(id, <what is expected>, <the reason>) :- line(id).` — the reason is a single term. I'll use the conjunction of what the writer gives: since the writer gives two reasons ("since the gate stood open, and the shepherd always left that gate open only once..."), maybe two claim_since clauses in one line's prolog_clauses? The guide says "prolog_clauses": one or more Prolog clauses. So one line with two clauses: `claim_since(sh4, in(flock,top_field), gate_open(gate)) :- line(sh4).` and `claim_since(sh4, in(flock,top_field), driven_through(flock,gate)) :- line(sh4).` Hmm, but that asserts each alone is a reason. In a SINCE test ("C is a reason to expect E... always reported with its unstated assumptions"), listing both as separate reasons is roughly right: each is offered as part of the reason.

Hmm, but is "the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it" itself a "reason" (a fact)? The reason term should match a holds(...) fact of a line it points at (encoding check 3). For the general line, the clause is not holds(...) but a rule `holds(driven_through(flock,gate)) :- line(sh3), holds(gate_open_left_by(...))`. Hmm, how do I encode the general line and its condition?

Let me design the general line's Prolog. The rule: when the shepherd leaves the gate open, then the flock has been driven through the gate. As an ALWAYS SHOWS rule: `holds(driven_through(flock, gate)) :- line(sh3), holds(left_open_by(shepherd, gate)).` — the SHOWS form: `holds(<conclusion>(X)) :- line(id), <goals>.` Yes! That fits: `holds(driven_through(flock,gate)) :- line(sh3), holds(left_open(shepherd,gate)).`

Then what fact triggers it? "the gate stood open" — is that the same as "the shepherd left the gate open"? Not exactly: the gate standing open is a state; the shepherd's leaving it open is the doing. The missing link: gate standing open ⇒ the shepherd left it open (nothing else opens it / it stays as left). Hmm! Another gap. Hmm, is it? "the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it" + "the gate stood open" — the shepherd's inference: the gate is open (as he left it) ⇒ he must have left it open ⇒ the flock was driven through. There's an implicit assumption that the gate's open state is due to his leaving it open.

OK so this text has real gaps. The task of the translator is to record commitments and let the checker find the gaps. I think I should:
1. Record the said facts and the said general rule and the said SINCE.
2. Fill in only what's needed for things to be nameable — not the inferential gaps. OR fill in obvious steps marked "filled in" and let the checker report "Added lines alone give the conclusion".

Hmm. The trap says: "When you feel a missing step is obvious: write it as its own line, marked 'filled in'." Two candidate missing steps: (a) gate open ⇒ shepherd left it open; (b) driven through the gate ⇒ flock in top field. Are they "obvious"? (a) seems reasonably implicit in "that gate" referring to the gate he leaves open. (b) is a real gap (which field does the gate lead to?).

Also, importantly, if I fill them in, the checker will report "Added lines alone give the conclusion", which flags that the translator did the writer's work — a finding about my guess. If I don't fill them in, the checker reports "follows only on assumptions nobody stated" / "jump with candidate missing lines" — which is about the writer's reasoning. The latter seems more in the spirit ("A separate checker does all the judging later"; the translator records commitments). And rule 9 warns against added lines substituting for the writer's reason.

I'll go with: do not fill in the inferential gaps; note them in the bin? No — the bin is for words from the text that the language can't hold. The gaps are absences, not words. Hmm, but "Readings I chose" can record my reading of "that gate" = the top field's gate. Hmm.

Actually wait. Let me reconsider the identity of "that gate". "the flock must be in the top field, since the gate stood open, and the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it." Which gate? "the gate" first appears here — definite description without antecedent in the note's content. Presumably the gate of the top field. But the sentence1 has "evening rounds" and no gate. So "the gate" is introduced here. It could be the gate to the top field (reading1) or some gate whose identity is known to shepherd/foreman but not to us (reading 2). Under reading 1, "driven through it" ⇒ into the top field. Under reading 2, the location after passing through is unstated.

Hmm. The whole point of the text seems to be: it's a sample text for testing inference-checking, likely with a deliberate gap or ambiguity. The SINCE reasoning: gate open → flock driven through gate → flock in top field? The gap "which field?" might be deliberate.

I'll handle: give the gate a thing line "gate is a gate; response to a press not stated" and add a filled-in line? Hmm. Let me do this: I'll record the identity relation as a filled-in line in shepherd_world: "gate belongs to top field" — hmm, is that "obvious"? The name "the top field" and "that gate" in the same breath strongly suggests the top field's gate. But under the rules I must be careful: "may not let the opposite follow just as well."

Hmm, alternatively, I can leave it out and record in "Readings I chose": Sentence 2: readings: "that gate" is the top field's gate (then driven through implies into the top field) / "that gate" is some other gate (then the location after driving through is unstated). Chosen: I record no identity line — I keep the gate unnamed as to which field — and leave the step to the checker. Hmm, "Readings I chose" must state the reading I took. I could say: chosen: the gate's field is not stated in the text; I write no line naming it, so the step from "driven through the gate" to "in the top field" is left open for the checker to report as a jump.

Hmm, but the "chosen" reading should be a reading of the words. Let me phrase: readings: (i) "that gate" = the top field's gate; (ii) "that gate" = a gate previously known to the characters, field unstated. Chosen: (ii) for the ledger (no line says which field the gate belongs to, because the text does not say); noted here so the checker's jump finding can be read against (i).

Hmm, that's a bit awkward but honest. Alternatively choose (i) and mark it "filled in" as a line. Then the argument would have a missing step anyway (driven through gate of top field ⇒ in top field — that step also needs "passing through a field's gate puts you in the field").

Honestly, I think the cleanest translation records exactly the said content and lets the checker find the gaps. But the task's trap list says to write obvious missing steps. Which steps are "obvious"? I'd say: "driving the flock through the gate puts the flock in the top field" is not obvious without knowing the gate. So I won't add it.

But hmm, there's the concern: "A ledger is complete when another reader, given only your ledger and your bin, could rebuild what the writer committed to". Fine — with my ledger + bin the reader sees the SINCE claim, the two reasons, and can see the gap.

Now, what about the SINCE's reason being compound? Let me look at how the checker tests SINCE: "It is tested on what follows by any route, and always reported with its unstated assumptions." So one claim_since with reason = the fact "gate_open(gate)"? Or with reason = the derived "driven_through(flock,gate)"?

I think the honest encoding: the reason offered is both the fact and the rule. Since the language's line-13 form is "line E SINCE line C" (one line), and the text has "since C1 and C2", I could write two SINCE lines pointing at each reason line, or write one SINCE line pointing at both. Rule 10: "Claims about lines point; they do not restate." I'll write one line: "line sh1 SINCE line sh2" and another "line sh1 SINCE line sh3"? Hmm.

Alternative and better: Note that the rule (sh3) is what makes gate-open evidence for the conclusion; the fact (sh2) is the evidence. The SINCE's reason is properly the pair. Let me write ONE line sh4 whose text is "line sh1 SINCE line sh2 and line sh3" and give it two prolog clauses, each claim_since with the same id but different reason terms — each spelled exactly as the holds(...) of the line it points at. For sh3 (a general SHOWS rule), what's its "holds fact"? The rule's conclusion is holds(driven_through(flock,gate)). So `claim_since(sh4, in(flock,top_field), driven_through(flock,gate)) :- line(sh4).` and `claim_since(sh4, in(flock,top_field), gate_open(gate)) :- line(sh4).`. Hmm, but does sh3 have a `holds(...)` fact spelled `driven_through(flock,gate)`? Yes — its head. OK, matching works.

Hmm, but is it right to say "in(flock,top_field) since driven_through(flock,gate)"? That's part of the reason chain. It's fine-ish. Alternatively, only one claim_since with the reason being `gate_open(gate)` and the general line simply being available as a rule in the ledger. Then the checker's SINCE test: "tested on what follows by any route" — with the rule sh3 in the ledger, from gate_open(gate) you can derive driven_through(flock,gate), but not in(flock,top_field). So it reports: rests on unstated assumptions (the missing step). That is a clean finding.

I think giving both claim_since clauses is more faithful to "since A and B". But it might muddy. Hmm.

Hmm, what does "the reason" mean for the checker? It reports "with its unstated assumptions" — so the checker is looking for a route from the reason to the expected thing. If the reason is a pair, a single term can't hold both. I'll use the pair as a conjunction term? `claim_since(sh4, in(flock,top_field), and(gate_open(gate), driven_through(flock,gate)))`? That violates check 3 (spelled exactly as the holds() of the line it points at).

Decision: two claim_since clauses under id sh4, one per reason line, each pointing at its line. And the ledger text: "line sh1 SINCE line sh2 and line sh3". Hmm — but then the JSON text field would be "[TOLD in shepherd_world] line sh1 SINCE line sh2 and line sh3" and the checker treats it as two SINCE claims. Alternatively make two separate lines sh4 and sh5 each "line sh1 SINCE line shX", marked said (both are in the sentence's words). That's cleaner for "Lines about other lines point at them by number" and each line one claim. But is it faithful? "E since C1 and C2" as two claims "E since C1" and "E since C2" overstates (each alone as reason). Hmm.

Compromise: one line sh4 with two prolog clauses, and in the text field write "line sh1 SINCE line sh2 and line sh3 (the reason is the pair)". Hmm.

Alternatively — I realize maybe the better reading: "since the gate stood open, and the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it" — the "and"-clause is not a second reason but the rule that licenses the inference from the first. So the reason (evidence) is "the gate stood open", licensed by the rule. That's a standard evidential structure: E since C, where the rule is background. In that case ONE claim_since with reason = gate_open(gate) is right, and the general line sh3 is a SHOWS rule in the ledger that the checker can use "by any route". 

I like this. And in Readings I chose I record: "Sentence 2: the reason offered is the gate's standing open; the second clause supplies the rule that licenses the inference. Readings: (i) two reasons, (ii) one reason plus its licensing rule. Chosen: (ii) — one SINCE line pointing at sh2, with sh3 in the ledger as the rule that would make the inference work."

Then the SINCE test: from gate_open(gate), via sh3 (needs holds(left_open(shepherd,gate)) — hmm, that condition isn't satisfied by gate_open(gate)). Hmm! That would break the route entirely and report "no connection" rather than a jump. Hmm.

Unless I encode the general rule's condition as the gate's being open. Let me reconsider the general line's shape. "the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it." Two facts: (1) gate was left open by shepherd (an action), (2) flock was driven through gate (prior). The general line: leaving open (by shepherd) needs/comes only after driven through.

But the evidence fact is "the gate stood open" (a state). For the route to work, the ledger needs a link from "gate stood open" to "shepherd left gate open" — another missing step!

Alternatively, encode the general rule as about the state: "ALWAYS: when [the gate is open], then [the flock has been driven through the gate]"? But that changes the said content (it says he left it open, not that it is open). Hmm. Hmm.

Hmm, what if the general line is written as the only-ways line (kind 8): "[the shepherd leaves gate open] NEEDS ONE OF: [the flock has been driven through the gate]" — that's exactly "only once". Written out as a general line: when [the flock has not been driven through the gate], then NOT [the shepherd leaves the gate open].

Then the shepherd's inference: gate open ⇒ (someone left it open: the shepherd) ⇒ flock driven through ⇒ in top field. Gaps: gate open ⇒ shepherd left it open; driven through ⇒ in top field.

Hmm, this text seems designed to have gaps — "since the gate stood open" is a weak reason.

Alternatively maybe the intended reading is simpler: The shepherd reasons: the gate is open; I never leave it open except after driving the flock through; therefore the flock has been driven through; therefore (since the gate leads to the top field) the flock is in the top field. The text's "must be in the top field" compresses this.

OK, as translator I'll record:
- sh1: flock is in the top field (TOLD in shepherd_world) [the conclusion content]
- sh2: gate stood open [stage: at the shepherd's conclusion] (TOLD)
- sh3: general line (ALWAYS, SHOWS): when [the shepherd leaves the gate open], then [the flock has been driven through the gate]. Prolog: holds(driven_through(flock,gate)) :- line(sh3), holds(left_open_by(shepherd,gate)). and it's an "only-ways" reading — recorded in readings.
- sh4: line sh1 SINCE line sh2 and line sh3 (or two lines).
- Missing steps left for the checker.

Hmm, wait. But should the general line be ALWAYS or USUALLY? "always" in the text → ALWAYS. But careful: the general line is inside shepherd_world (the shepherd's stated practice as reported in the note). Yes TOLD in shepherd_world.

Now, what about the driving-through? "the flock had been driven through it" — a happening: someone drove the flock through the gate. Doer not named ("the shepherd" is implied as the one who drove them? "the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it" — passive "had been driven"; doer unstated). Things: flock, gate. Happening p2 (TOLD in shepherd_world): DOER [not stated] DRIVES flock through gate. Hmm — "driven through it" — direction: "through" — directions are toward X, away from X, up, down, across. "Through" isn't listed. Hmm. Could be "across"? No. I'd write the happening as "flock was driven through gate [direction: through gate — no fixed direction fits]" and bin "through" with reason: the direction list has no "through"; the movement is recorded as a happening without a fixed direction... Hmm. Or interpret as "flock MOVES toward top_field"? That assumes the gate leads to the top field. No.

Let me write: p2: "[TOLD in shepherd_world] p2: not-stated doer DRIVES flock through gate" and note direction "through gate" not in the fixed direction list → bin the phrase "through it" with reason: "through" is not one of the five directions; the movement's direction cannot be written in the language's list.

Hmm, or write direction as "across"? No, don't guess.

Alternatively treat the result as: "flock BECAME [driven through gate]"? Result kinds: MOVES direction, STAYS, TOUCHES thing, or BECOMES [description], as a result of happening NAME. So: "flock BECOMES [driven through the gate] as a result of happening p2" — BECOMES is carried and not yet checked. That's a clean way to record it! Good: result line r2: "flock BECOMES [through the gate] as a result of happening p2"? Hmm, BECOMES [description] — description "having been driven through the gate". Hmm.

Simpler: Fact: "flock has been driven through the gate [stage: before the shepherd's conclusion]" — a plain fact, said. Because the text says "the flock had been driven through it" as content of the rule. Actually it's inside the general rule's consequent. So the general line's consequent is the fact "flock driven through gate" and its condition is "shepherd leaves gate open". I don't need a separate happening line for the driving... but rule 39 says "Happenings. Write who did what to what, and which way, using the text's own verb." The text's clause "the flock had been driven through it" is a passive happening with unnamed doer. Should I write it as a happening? It appears as part of the rule's condition/consequent, not as an asserted event. Since it's inside the general line, it's not an event that happened; it's the content of the consequent. So no happening line needed. But I might write it as a fact line that the general rule's head derives. Hmm, the general line's consequent must be a term; the line sh3's prolog has holds(driven_through(flock,gate)) as head. Fine.

But then encoding check 3: for claim_since pointing at... we decided sh4 points at sh2 (gate_open(gate)). Fine.

Hmm, but what fact term for sh2? "the gate stood open": holds(gate_open(gate))? Or holds(open(gate))? Use `holds(stands_open(gate))`. Let me use `holds(gate_open(gate))` — clear.

Now what about the condition term in sh3's rule: `holds(left_open_by(shepherd, gate))`. Since nothing asserts it, the route is broken — the checker will say "follows only on assumptions nobody stated" or "jump with candidate missing lines". Actually since sh3's condition never holds, from gate_open(gate) nothing follows → "no connection" or "jump". The checker says SINCE "is tested on what follows by any route, and always reported with its unstated assumptions" — so it'll report the unstated assumption "the shepherd left the gate open". Fine — that's a genuine finding.

Hmm, but maybe I should be a bit more generous and record the general rule's condition as the gate's being open? Let me reconsider the sentence once more: "the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it."

Parse: "the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it" = "the shepherd never left that gate open except on occasions when the flock had been driven through it" = the occasions of leaving-open are a subset of occasions of having-driven-through.

So condition: shepherd leaves gate open (or: gate left open by shepherd). Consequent (as a sign): flock driven through gate.

Alternatively express as: ALWAYS: when [the gate has been left open by the shepherd], then [the flock has been driven through the gate]. SHOWS.

I'll go with `holds(driven_through(flock, gate)) :- line(sh3), holds(left_open_by(shepherd, gate)).`

And for the SHOWS general line shape from the guide: `holds(<conclusion>(X)) :- line(id), <goals>.` ✓.

Should it also be an only-ways line? "only once" → the only-ways form: "[shepherd leaves gate open] NEEDS ONE OF: [flock driven through gate]" — kind 8, "Written out as a general line: when every listed way is denied, the content is denied." I could add a second line sh3b as the only-ways line. Hmm, it's the same content expressed differently. The task says "Only-ways line" is a content kind to use when the text says "only". Hmm. I think one line is enough; but the "only" is meaningful: it denies other ways. Let me write the general line and note in its text that it is an only-ways line ("only once" — the single listed way). Actually, maybe cleanest: write sh3 as the only-ways line (kind 8), since the text says "only once", and the only-ways line is "written out as a general line". So content: "[the shepherd leaves the gate open] NEEDS ONE OF: [the flock has been driven through the gate]". And the general-line form: "ALWAYS SHOWS: when [the flock has NOT been driven through the gate], then NOT [the shepherd leaves the gate open]"? Hmm, that's the contrapositive. But the shepherd's inference uses the forward direction: open ⇒ driven through. Which is the contrapositive of the only-ways line — logically equivalent. The checker's "Only-ways line: Written out as a general line: when every listed way is denied, the content is denied."

Hmm, simpler for the checker: write the forward direction as a general line (open ⇒ driven through) since that's how it's used. And note in readings that the "only once" makes it an only-ways line with one way, which I wrote forward.

Hmm, let me think about which the checker can handle. Prolog-wise, only-ways line's encoding isn't specified in the guide's vocabulary! The guide lists: thing, fact, denied fact, general ALWAYS MAKES (produced/depends), general ALWAYS SHOWS (holds :- goals), general USUALLY (same + not exception), exception, because, denied because, since, plan, likeness, what-if, told/supposed. No only-ways predicate. So the only-ways line must be "written out as a general line" — right, kind 8's description says exactly that. So encode as a general line.

Which direction? "when every listed way is denied, the content is denied": when [flock driven through] is denied, then [shepherd leaves gate open] is denied. In Prolog SHOWS form: `holds(not_left_open_by(shepherd,gate)) :- line(sh3), denied(driven_through(flock,gate)).` Hmm, awkward. Whereas the forward direction `holds(driven_through(flock,gate)) :- line(sh3), holds(left_open_by(shepherd,gate)).` is directly the inference the shepherd draws.

Since the shepherd's SINCE argument uses the forward direction, and the language says the only-ways line is "written out as a general line", I'll write the general line in the forward direction and note the "only once" strength in the text field, plus record the reading.

Hmm, careful with rule 9: "An added line ... may not be the claimed line in other words" — this isn't an added line, it's the said line written in the language. Fine.

Now let me also handle sentence 3's content and sentence 1 and 4.

Sentence 3: "The foreman added, from what he saw himself, that the lower field was empty of grass."
- Actual: p3: foreman ADDED [content] to note — hmm, "added" with the content as its object. Write happening p3: foreman ADDED [record of lower field being empty of grass] to note. Verb "add" has no shape → not checked. Hmm, do I want happenings here at all? "added" is a doing to the note. Let me write: "p3: foreman ADDED content to note [no direction]" — awkward but OK. Or as a fact: "foreman added the record to the note". Hmm.

Let me decide the overall style: use Facts for most content and Happenings for clear doings (kept, wrote, added). I'll write happenings for kept/wrote/added/ended? "The note ended" is intransitive → Fact.

Let me now define things and names:
- foreman — the farm foreman. Name: "foreman". Kind: person. Response: heavy and standing. DOER: yes.
- note — the notes/the note. Name: "note". Kind: note. Response: not stated.
- rounds — the evening rounds. Name: "rounds". Kind: rounds. Response: not stated. Hmm — kind should be a KIND; "rounds" as kind is odd but it's a free name. Maybe kind: "walk"? No — use the text's word. kind(rounds, rounds)? Hmm, "rounds" is more an event. Let me name it "rounds" with kind "event". Is "event" from the text? The text says "his evening rounds" and "the rounds had finished" — an activity that can finish. Kind "rounds" is fine (kind is a free name). I'll use kind(rounds, rounds_event)? Hmm. Let me use `kind(rounds, event)` and mark "filled in" for the kind choice? Hmm, rule: thing line "NAME is a KIND". The kind is a free name — "the checker only asks whether two facts are the same fact" (that's for facts). For kinds: "The kind is checked wherever another line speaks about that kind." So kind names just need consistency. I'll use kind(rounds, rounds). Fine — "rounds is a rounds". Hmm, that's silly. Let me do: "rounds is an event; response to a press not stated" with kind(rounds, event), mark said (the word "rounds" is the text's, "event" is my class name...). Meh. Alternative: don't make rounds a thing; treat "the rounds had finished" as a fact about the event "rounds"... it needs a name to be a thing. I'll keep thing line: rounds is an event; response to a press not stated (filled in? no — the response class "not stated" is exactly what the rule says to write; the kind "event" is my plain name). Hmm, kind must be one of... no, kind is free ("is a KIND"). I'll mark it "said" since the text names the rounds; but the class "event" is my word... Actually the thing line shape "NAME is a KIND; it answers a press as one of the six response classes; it may be a DOER" — the KIND is a plain name from the text. So kind(rounds, rounds)? I'd rather say kind(rounds, evening_rounds)? The text says "his evening rounds". Hmm, "evening" is time → bin. Let me just use kind(rounds, rounds) — "rounds is a rounds". Hmm.

Let me reconsider: maybe simpler to name things and give kinds as the text's nouns:
- foreman: kind person (the text says "farm foreman" — a person). Is "person" a guess? A foreman is a person — that's plain reading. Response class "heavy and standing (a person)" follows. Mark said? The text says "farm foreman", which is a person. I'd mark "said" for kind(person) and the response class "heavy and standing" — hmm, the response class is my inference from "person". Rule: "If the text does not say how it answers a press, write 'not stated'. A class you guess is a filled-in line." So the response class for the foreman: the text doesn't say → but "person" ⇒ "heavy and standing" is by the fixed list's own gloss "(a person)". The list itself gives examples: "heavy and standing (a person)". So a person is heavy and standing by the language's own convention. I'd say that's not a guess — the list defines it. I'll write "heavy and standing" and mark the line said... hmm, or mark filled in to be safe? The line has one mark. The kind "person" is said ("foreman" implies person). Hmm, the text never says "person". Ugh.

Let me be pragmatic: for things, mark "said" when the text names the thing and its nature plainly (foreman is a person, shepherd is a person), with the response class from the language's fixed list examples. And note in readings: "foreman/shepherd: the text names an occupation of a person; the response class 'heavy and standing' is the list's own gloss for a person." Hmm — but rule: "A class you guess is a filled-in line." Choosing "heavy and standing" for a foreman is not exactly a guess given the list says "(a person)". But to be safe and transparent, I could mark these thing lines "filled in" and say which part I added. Hmm, but then everything becomes filled in.

Hmm, look at example_T10D: "account is an account; response to a press not stated" — mark said. And things like "window is a window; response to a press not stated" said. In example_A (simplified), "the balcony plants are tomato plants" said.

In example_A.pl: `kind(balcony_plants, tomato_plant) :- line(1).` — no body(...) clause when the response is... hmm, example_A lines don't have body clauses at all. The guide says `body(<thing>, not_stated) :- line(id).` (the response to a press, when not stated). example_A.pl omits them (it's an older/simpler example). I'll include body(..., not_stated) where not stated.

For the foreman and shepherd: I'll write "foreman is a person; response to a press: heavy and standing" and mark said, and note in readings that "person" and its class come from the fixed list's gloss for a person. Hmm... Actually, you know, "the farm foreman" — a foreman is a human being; "heavy and standing (a person)" is the list's own example. I'll mark said and add a reading note. Alternatively mark "filled in" for the response class part. Let me split? Rule 15: "Where part was said and part is your choice, split the line if you can." Can I split a thing line into "foreman is a person" (said) and "foreman answers a press as heavy and standing" (filled in)? The thing line is one kind with all its parts. Splitting seems awkward but rule 3 says "A class you guess is a filled-in line" — implying the class part can be its own line! So: 
- thing line A: "foreman is a person; DOER" — said.
- thing line B: "foreman answers a press as heavy and standing" — filled in (the class).
Hmm, but then the thing line shape includes the class... "Give every thing in a happening a thing line" — one line per thing ideally.

Hmm. Let me simplify: one thing line per thing, with "not stated" for the response class wherever the text doesn't say (per rule 3's explicit instruction: "If the text does not say how it answers a press, write 'not stated'."). For people, does the text say? It says "foreman", "shepherd" — occupations of persons. The response to a press is still not stated in the text. So per rule 3 → "not stated". That's the literal instruction and avoids guessing. But hmm, the fixed list's "(a person)" gloss suggests persons map to heavy and standing. But rule 3 is explicit: text silent ⇒ "not stated"; a guessed class ⇒ filled in.

I'll do this: for the foreman and shepherd, write "is a person; answers a press as heavy and standing" marked "filled in" — with the text saying which part I added (the class). Hmm, but the kind "person" is also my word...

Ugh, decision paralysis. Let me settle: 
- Thing lines get "not stated" for response class wherever the text does not literally describe how the thing answers a press (which is everywhere in this text). Mark "said". Then in "Readings I chose" I note that occupations like foreman and shepherd are persons and the list's gloss would give "heavy and standing", but the text states no press response, so I wrote "not stated" per rule 3.

Hmm, but "not stated" for a person seems to lose information. But it is what rule 3 says and it's conservative. And it's one line, clean, "said". Hmm, but then kind: "foreman is a foreman"? Let me use kind names from the text: foreman is a foreman; shepherd is a shepherd; note is a note; gate is a gate; top_field is a field; lower_field is a field; grass is grass; flock is a flock; rounds is a round? Hmm.

Wait, maybe better: give kinds that are the text's nouns:- `kind(foreman, foreman)` — hmm, tautological but the shape is "NAME is a KIND" and the name and kind can coincide? In example_A: `kind(balcony_plants, tomato_plant)` — name differs from kind. In T10D: `kind(window, window)` — they coincide! OK so coincidence is allowed.So: kind(foreman, foreman)? Hmm, but "farm foreman" — the kind could be "farm_foreman". Let me use: `kind(foreman, farm_foreman)`, `kind(shepherd, shepherd)`, `kind(note, note)`, `kind(rounds, rounds)`, `kind(gate, gate)`, `kind(top_field, field)`, `kind(lower_field, field)`, `kind(grass, grass)`, `kind(flock, flock)`.

Hmm, "top_field is a field" — "field" is my word but it's in the text ("top field", "lower field"). Good.

Response classes: all "not stated". OK. Hmm, for grass — "not stated" too (light and loose? it grows...). Yes, not stated.

Now let me build the full line list.

**Sentence 1**: "The farm foreman kept notes on his evening rounds."

Lines (actual ledger):
- 1a (thing): foreman is a farm_foreman; response to a press not stated; DOER. said. s1.
- 1b (thing): note is a note; response to a press not stated. said. s1. (from "notes"; reading: "notes" plural and "the note" singular refer to one record — record in readings.)
- 1c (thing): rounds is a rounds; response to a press not stated. said. s1. (also s4)
- p1 (happening): p1: foreman KEPT note. said. s1. Verb "keep" not in the shape book → not checked (report it; count it).
- Bin: "on his evening rounds" — occasion/time of the keeping; the language records no "when" beyond chain order and stages. Hmm — but I want to keep the foreman–rounds link. Let me instead write a fact: f1: "the note was kept on the foreman's rounds" — the "when" is outside... Hmm. Actually "on his evening rounds" tells us the keeping happened during the rounds — that's an ordering/co-occurrence relation, arguably a link between happenings. There's no happening "rounds" though.

Let me do: Bin entry for "on his evening rounds" (words: "on his evening rounds", reason: occasion and time of day of the keeping; the language has no form for when, so the timing goes here; the thing 'rounds' is kept as a named thing for sentence 4).

Hmm, but "his" (the foreman's rounds) is a relation foreman–rounds. I could write a fact f1: "rounds belong to foreman" — filled in? Or just bin it all. I'll bin "on his evening rounds" as the occasion phrase and keep rounds as a thing. But then is rounds' link to the foreman lost? Sentence 4 says "the rounds had finished" — whose rounds? the foreman's. I'll write a fact (filled in): "rounds are the foreman's rounds" — hmm, possession... "Who believes, knows or wants what" is outside; possession isn't explicitly listed as outside. "Where things are; inside, outside and openings" is outside the language. Hmm.

Simplest: name the thing "foreman_rounds"? Names should be plain lower-case words. "foreman_rounds" has an underscore — allowed (only names ending in underscore+number are forbidden). So name it `rounds` and add fact "rounds are done by foreman" — as a happening p0: foreman DOES rounds? The text says "his evening rounds" — implies he does rounds. Filled in? It's plain from "his evening rounds" + "the rounds had finished". I'd write a thing line: "rounds is a rounds event of the foreman; response to a press not stated" — put "of the foreman" in the thing line? Not in the shape.OK: I'll write a Fact line (filled in): "the rounds are the foreman's rounds" and bin "evening" (time of day). Hmm, or simpler: bin "on his evening rounds" entirely (reason: the occasion and time of the keeping; "his" names whose rounds they are and "evening" the time of day; the language has no form for when or whose), and add a filled-in fact "the rounds are the foreman's rounds" so sentence 4's "the rounds" links to the foreman. Hmm, that's contradictory: binning "his" and then adding a line for it. Rule 16: "Nothing is dropped silently. Whatever cannot be written goes in the bin with the reason." And rule 9: added lines must not replace the writer's reason etc.

Decision: 
- p1: foreman KEPT note — said.
- f1: "the note-keeping happened on the foreman's rounds" — hmm.

You know what, let me treat "on his evening rounds" as a stage/occasion and write a fact with the stage: "note was kept [stage: during the foreman's evening rounds]" — no.Final decision: I'll write a fact line: "the keeping of the note was part of the foreman's rounds" marked "filled in" (the link between keeping and rounds; the text gives it only as a time phrase), and bin "evening" (time of day, outside the language). That preserves content with clear marking. Actually hmm, "filled in" but it's directly from "on his evening rounds"... rule 15: part said (the link) and part not writable (the timing). Splitting: keep the link as a fact (said?) and bin "evening".

Let me do:
- f1 (fact): "the note was kept during the foreman's rounds" — mark "said"? The words "on his evening rounds" do say this (minus "evening"). I'll mark "filled in" and state in the line which part I added: "[CLAIMED] the note-keeping was part of the foreman's rounds — source words 'on his evening rounds'; the time of day is binned". Hmm, the line's text should be ledger-language words. Rule 15 allows: "mark the whole line filled in and say in it which part you added."

Alternatively mark it "said" and bin only "evening" — the phrase "on his rounds" is said content (a relation between the keeping and the rounds). I think "said" is defensible: the writer wrote that the keeping was on his rounds. The time "evening" goes to the bin. Yes! Do that: f1 marked "said", content "the note was kept on the foreman's rounds"; bin "evening" (time of day, outside the language).

Hmm, but is "kept on his rounds" a Fact ("THING plus any plain description")? "note was kept on the foreman's rounds" — as a description of the note-keeping. But keeping is a happening p1... Facts can describe things: "the note [was kept] on rounds" — Fact shape is "THING plus any plain description ('sat on the mat', 'is in the study')". So "note was kept on the foreman's rounds" is a fine Fact about the note. But it duplicates p1 (foreman KEPT note). Hmm.

Maybe drop the happening p1 and just use facts? "The farm foreman kept notes" — who did what to whom: foreman kept notes. It's a doing. I'd keep p1 as a happening and also f1 for the rounds link.

Hmm, this is getting heavy. Let me simplify by using facts more and happenings only where a real doing with direction/result occurs (none here really). Actually the language's happenings are about presses and movements. This text has no physical presses. "kept notes", "wrote", "added", "ended", "left open", "driven through" — "left that gate open" and "driven through it" are physical! Those are inside shepherd_world.

Let me decide: I'll write happenings for the doings (kept, wrote, added) since the task says "Happenings. Write who did what to what, and which way, using the text's own verb." — but note "which way" only applies where a direction is present. And the verbs (keep, write, add, leave open, drive) have no shape in the shape book → "not checked" (the checker reports this; the report lists "the verbs with no shape").

Hmm, "leave ... open" — "open" is in the shape book? "drop, let go of and open a fist on are release" — "open a fist on" is a release. "Leave the gate open" isn't. "hold and close a fist on are hold". So "leave" — not in the shape book. "drive" — not listed. So all verbs here are unchecked. That's honest.

Alternatively use Facts for these to avoid verb-shape noise. But the task explicitly says to use the text's own verb in happenings. Let me write happenings where there's a clear DOER VERB THING structure:
- p1: foreman KEPT note. (doer foreman, verb keep, thing note)
- p2: foreman WROTE note? Hmm "He wrote that P" — the object is the content. Write p2: foreman WROTE [the report of the shepherd's conclusion] — with the thing being the note? "He wrote that..." — he wrote in the note. Let me write: p2: foreman WROTE note [content: the shepherd's conclusion]. Hmm. Or simply a fact "the note records that the shepherd concluded ..." TOLD? No — the note's recording it is actual (the narrator asserts he wrote it).

Hmm! Careful: is "He wrote that the shepherd had concluded P" asserting that the note contains the report? Yes, the narrator (of B01) asserts it. So: p2: foreman WROTE in note (actual, CLAIMED), and the content is TOLD in note_world / shepherd_world.

Let me structure the told worlds more concretely.

**note_world** — what the foreman's note says:
- The note records the shepherd's conclusion (the attribution — binned; content to shepherd_world).
- The note records: "the lower field was empty of grass" (from the foreman's own sight).
- The note ends with the time the rounds had finished (the time value → bin; the fact "rounds had finished" → where? The note records it. Hmm, or is it the narrator's statement about the note? "The note ended with the time the rounds had finished." — the narrator asserts: the note ended with [a record of] the time [at which] the rounds had finished. The fact "the rounds had finished" — is it asserted by the narrator as actual? "the time the rounds had finished" presupposes/asserts the rounds finished. Grammar: "the rounds had finished" is a relative clause — GIVEN per rule 4 ("'who', 'which', 'as', 'while' and '-ing' descriptions are GIVEN"). So "rounds had finished" is GIVEN (actual), and the note's ending is CLAIMED.

Hmm, or is it TOLD (the note records the time)? The narrator says the note ended with the time. The note's content includes a time. The fact that the rounds finished at that time — the note records it. Hmm. I'll treat "the rounds had finished" as GIVEN in the actual ledger (the narrator takes it for granted), and the note's recording of the time as: the note ended [with a record of the time of the rounds' finish] — the specific time is outside the language (numbers/when) → bin.

Let me write:
- f_end (fact, CLAIMED, said): "the note ended".
- f_end2 (fact, CLAIMED, said): "the note carried the finish time of the rounds"? Hmm — the "time" content is outside the language (a number). Hmm: "The note ended with the time the rounds had finished." Two parts: (a) the note ended with something; (b) that something was the time at which the rounds had finished. Since specific times are outside the language ("When, beyond the order of a chain and the stage named in a fact"), the recorded time → bin. But I can keep the structure: the note's last entry records when the rounds finished — hmm, "when" is outside. So bin: "the time the rounds had finished" as recorded in the note (a time value; outside the language). But then the fact "rounds had finished" — keep as a GIVEN fact with stage.

Hmm, if I bin the whole phrase "with the time the rounds had finished", I lose "rounds had finished". Better: bin "the time" (the value/when) and keep "the rounds had finished" as a fact (GIVEN, with stage "before the note ended"). And a fact "the note's last entry was the rounds' finish time" → hmm, that's a "when" relation → bin.

Let me write:
- f4a (GIVEN, said): "rounds finished [stage: before the note ended]" — the stage from "had finished". Hmm, is the stage "before the note ended" or "before the foreman wrote the end"? "the time the rounds had finished" — past perfect relative to the note's ending/writing. I'll write stage "before the note's end".
- f4b (CLAIMED, said): "the note ended with the finish time of the rounds" — hmm, this is a fact about the note: "note ended with the finish time of the rounds". Is "finish time" outside? The fact that the note records a time is a structural fact about the note; the value is outside. I'll write f4b as: "note ended [with a record of the rounds' finish]" — hmm.

Cleaner: bin the phrase "the time" with reason: a clock time is a number/when, outside the language. Keep f4b: "the note ended with the rounds' finish recorded in it"? That's me adding wording. Hmm.

Alternative: Fact f4b: "the note ended" and fact f4c: "the note's end recorded the finish of the rounds". Hmm.

Let me just do:
- f4b (CLAIMED, said): "the note ended with the finish of the rounds" (as a plain description of the note: "note ended with the finish of the rounds"). This keeps the structural fact (the note's ending coincided with/carried the rounds' finish record) without the clock value. And bin "the time" (the clock value, outside the language).

Hmm, "ended with the time" means the last item recorded was the time. "ended with the finish of the rounds" slightly rewords. Rule 9 is about added lines not restating the claimed line — this is a said line, reworded into the language. Fine, but I should be careful. Let me write f4b as: "note ended [stage: with the rounds' finish time]" — hmm.

OK let me write: "the note ended with a record of when the rounds finished" and bin "when"/the time value. In prolog: `holds(note_ended_with(note, rounds_finish_time)) :- line(f4b).` Hmm.

Fine: `holds(ended_with(note, rounds_finish_time)) :- line(f4b).` and bin "the time" as a value outside the language. And f4a: `holds(finished(rounds)) :- line(f4a).` with stage.

Hmm, is "rounds finished" a happening? "the rounds had finished" — the rounds is the doer/thing. It's an intransitive change. As a fact with stage: "rounds finished [stage: before the note's end]". Fine.

Now sentence 3's lines:
- p3 (happening, CLAIMED, said): foreman ADDED [the record about the lower field] — hmm, the thing of the adding. Let me write p3: "p3: foreman ADDED to note" — the shape is DOER VERB THING: foreman ADDED record, where record = the note's entry. Hmm. Or treat as fact: "the foreman added to the note that the lower field was empty of grass" — the content is TOLD in note_world.

Let me write:
- p3 (happening, CLAIMED, said): "p3: foreman ADDED entry to note" — with the entry's content TOLD in note_world (nf1). And bin "from what he saw himself" (source attribution: who saw/knows what — outside the language).

- nf1 (TOLD in note_world, said): "lower field is empty of grass [stage: when the foreman saw it]". Hmm — "was empty of grass" — stage. The stage: at the time he looked. Hmm, "was" past tense. Let me write "lower_field was empty of grass [stage: at the foreman's sight]" — hmm, do I need the stage? Rule 13: "When a thing's state changes in the text, put the stage in the fact: the door open in the morning, the door open in the evening." Here there's no stated change of state (no before/after). So no stage needed. Just "lower field is empty of grass" — but "was" (past). Facts can be plain descriptions. I'll write "the lower field was empty of grass". Fine.

- things: lower_field (TOLD in note_world? or actual?). Hmm! The foreman saw the lower field himself — that's in the actual world (he looked at a real field). But the content is TOLD in note_world (the note says it). Which world do the things belong to? Since a told world is looked at alone and doesn't inherit the actual ledger, the note_world's argument needs its own things. But the lower field is a real field the foreman saw...

Hmm. This is the tension: "The foreman added, from what he saw himself, that the lower field was empty of grass." The narrator asserts the foreman added this to the note. The note says: lower field empty of grass. The foreman's seeing is the source (binned). Is the content asserted as true by the narrator? Not exactly — the narrator reports what the foreman wrote and on what authority. So TOLD in note_world.

But hmm — the foreman's own sight arguably makes it a claim about the actual world... "from what he saw himself" — the narrator endorses that the foreman saw it? Per T10D handling, attributions are binned and content scoped to the world. So: nf1 TOLD in note_world, and things lower_field and grass TOLD in note_world.

But wait — is the lower field the same lower field referred to... there's no other reference. Fine.

Hmm, but there's a subtlety: does the note_world's "lower field empty of grass" matter to anything? It seems to be a red herring / distractor in the text (perhaps relevant to why the flock isn't in the lower field — no grass → the flock isn't there?). The text doesn't draw that inference. OK.

Now the shepherd_world (the shepherd's conclusion):
Things (TOLD in shepherd_world): shepherd, flock, gate, top_field.
Facts:
- sh1: "flock is in the top field" (the conclusion content) — TOLD.
- sh2: "gate stood open [stage: at the shepherd's conclusion]" — TOLD.
- sh3: general line — TOLD.
- sh4: SINCE claim — TOLD.

Also the happening of driving: "the flock had been driven through it" appears inside the general line's consequent. Do I need a thing/happening for it? The general line's consequent content is "the flock has been driven through the gate". As a general line's content, it's [content] then [content] — content can be a fact. So the consequent is the fact "flock driven through gate". I'll also write a fact line sh5: "the flock has been driven through the gate [stage: before the shepherd's conclusion]"? Hmm — is that asserted? It's inside the rule's consequent (conditional). Not asserted as having happened. But the shepherd's reasoning concludes it happened. Hmm — the conclusion stated is only "in the top field". The intermediate is unstated. So don't write sh5 as an asserted fact. But the general line's consequent needs a term; that's fine (`driven_through(flock, gate)` in the rule's head).

Hmm, but then encoding check 3: "Every fact term used in a claim_because, claim_since, ... is spelled exactly as in the holds(...) of the line it points at". sh4's claim_since reason = gate_open(gate) which matches sh2's holds(gate_open(gate)). ✓.

Also, the general line's condition `left_open_by(shepherd, gate)` — is there a line with holds(left_open_by(shepherd,gate))? No. That's fine (it's the rule's condition, not a claim_since reference).

Hmm, but should I write the general line's antecedent as a fact "shepherd leaves gate open"? The general line's shape: "ALWAYS or USUALLY: when [content], then [content]". Both sides are content. So the antecedent content is "the shepherd leaves the gate open" and consequent "the flock has been driven through the gate". Fine.

Now — the doer of "driven": passive; "the flock had been driven through it" — doer not stated. Inside a general line's content, no separate happening line is needed. But should I give the driving a happening name (p4) since "Happenings. Write who did what to what"? It's not asserted as an event that occurred; it's the content of the consequent. Skip; note in readings.

Now, what about the "only once" and ALWAYS/USUALLY: text says "always ... only once" → ALWAYS. But careful: is it a general line over occasions: "the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it" — ALWAYS: when [the shepherd leaves the gate open], then [the flock has been driven through the gate]. But is it truly ALWAYS in the language's sense (no exceptions)? The text says "always", so ALWAYS. And SHOWS (the shepherd uses it to read one thing off another). And the "only" part: only-ways. I'll write one line as an only-ways/general line. Let me write content: "ALWAYS SHOWS: when [the shepherd leaves the gate open], then [the flock has been driven through the gate] — 'only once' makes this the single permitted way (an only-ways line with one way)". Mark: filled in (because I chose SHOWS; the content is said). Per rule 15: mark whole line "filled in" and say in it which part I added.

Hmm, wait. Is SHOWS really my choice? "MAKES: this produces that. SHOWS: this is how we can tell." The line says the shepherd leaves the gate open only after the flock has been driven through — the leaving open doesn't produce the driving (it comes after). So as a rule it can only be SHOWS. Could the text be read as MAKES in reverse (driving through produces leaving open)? Under the "always...only once" reading, the driving through is a precondition of the leaving open. As a sign: leaving open ⇒ driven through. So SHOWS. I think the text does settle it (temporal order: "only once ... had been driven through"), so maybe "said"? But rule 7 says: "Every general line says MAKES or SHOWS. If the text does not settle it, the choice is a filled-in line." Since I judge the text settles it (the cause-effect direction is given by "only once X had happened"), I could mark "said". Hmm, but "MAKES or SHOWS" is a language-internal classification that the text never states in those words. To be safe and transparent: mark "filled in" and say which part I added (the SHOWS kind). Hmm, but then the whole line is "filled in" which downgrades the said content... Rule 15 explicitly covers this: "mark the whole line filled in and say in it which part you added." OK.

Hmm, alternatively split: line sh3a: "[TOLD] when [the shepherd leaves the gate open], then [the flock has been driven through the gate]" said... but a general line must carry ALWAYS/USUALLY and MAKES/SHOWS — can't split those out. So: one line, marked filled in, text notes "content said; the SHOWS kind is the translator's choice". Good.

Hmm, hmm. But maybe cleaner: since "always" settles ALWAYS and the temporal "only once ... had been driven through" settles that it's a sign (not a producer), I could mark it "said" and record the MAKES/SHOWS reading in "Readings I chose". Hmm. The task says: "General lines. Mark each as ALWAYS or USUALLY, and as MAKES or SHOWS. When the text leaves that open, choose, and mark your choice 'filled in'." — "mark your choice 'filled in'" — this suggests marking the choice (the MAKES/SHOWS pick) as filled in, which under one-line-one-mark means the line is filled in. I'll mark the line "filled in" and state the added part. Hmm, but rule 15 says "split the line if you can. If you cannot, mark the whole line filled in and say in it which part you added."

Hmm, can I split? Two lines: sh3 (said): "[TOLD] ALWAYS: when [shepherd leaves gate open], then [flock driven through gate]" — but that lacks MAKES/SHOWS, violating the general-line shape. So no. Whole line → filled in, with the note. OK, decided.

Hmm, actually wait. Let me reconsider: maybe I mark it "said" and say in Readings I chose that SHOWS was chosen. The difference: the count section ("lines said, lines filled in"). Being conservative (filled in) is more transparent about my guess. I'll go "filled in".

Hmm, but there's a wrinkle: the checker's "Added lines are tested by taking out every line the writer wrote. If the conclusion still follows, the added lines are doing the writer's work, and the report says so." If sh3 is marked filled in and it's the crucial rule, the checker would say added lines give the conclusion — a finding about my translation. Hmm! That's a real downside: marking the writer's said rule as "filled in" would trigger "added lines alone give the conclusion" wrongly.

Hmm. But the rule is genuinely said ("the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it"), and only the SHOWS/MAKES tag is mine. Marking it filled in mislabels the writer's content as my addition. Hmm.

Rule 15's fallback ("mark the whole line filled in and say in it which part you added") seems designed exactly for this. And the checker's note would then say "a finding that leans on an added line is about the translator's guess until the writer confirms that line" — which is a bit lossy but honest given the marking scheme.

Alternatively — think about whether MAKES vs SHOWS is actually open here. The general line, as I write it, is "when [shepherd leaves gate open], then [flock driven through]". Could this be MAKES? "MAKES: this produces that" — leaving the gate open does not produce the flock's having been driven through (which precedes). So it cannot be MAKES in the written direction. Could I write the line in the other direction ("when [flock driven through], then [shepherd leaves gate open]") and make it MAKES (driving through causes him to leave it open)? That would be a different line and wouldn't license the shepherd's inference directly. Under the "only once" reading, the driving-through is necessary for the leaving-open, and the "always" might suggest it's also sufficient (whenever he drove them through, he left it open). Ambiguity again → readings.

I'll write the line in the direction the shepherd uses (open ⇒ driven through), classify it SHOWS, mark "filled in" per rule 15...Hmm, hmm. Let me look at example_P14 for guidance: line "a": "[CLAIMED] ALWAYS SHOWS: a helping member pays the cost; generic description" — mark "filled in". And it says "generic description" — noting the added part. And in P14, lines d and e (the said content) are marked "said" and are facts, while the generalizations the translator extracted are "filled in". So in P14, the translator marked derived generalizations as filled in.

But here the general line IS the writer's words ("the shepherd always left that gate open only once..."). So it's "said" content. The only non-said part is the SHOWS tag. Hmm, P14's line m: "[CLAIMED] ALWAYS SHOWS: where cooperation has spread, groups were what selection acted on; retrospective generalisation" — mark "filled in" — the sentence 10 words do say that ("Where cooperation has spread... groups were the things selection was acting on") — yet it's marked filled in because of the ALWAYS SHOWS formalization ("retrospective generalisation"). Interesting — so P14's translator marked formalized general lines as filled in even when the content is said.

Hmm, but P14 also has a "translation_gauge" and notes. I think marking "filled in" with a note "content said; the SHOWS kind and the ALWAYS strength are the translator's formalization" is acceptable... but the "always" IS said.

Alternatively: mark "said" and note in the line text "(SHOWS chosen; noted under Readings)". The one-mark rule forces a choice. Which is worse? Consider the checker: "Added lines are tested by taking out every line the writer wrote." If the general line is "filled in", then when the checker takes out all said lines, the conclusion may follow from the filled-in general line alone → finding "added lines alone give the conclusion" → which flags my line as doing the writer's work. That's a misreading of the situation, but the checker's note will point at my line and the reader can see from the line text "content said; only the SHOWS tag is mine".

If instead I mark it "said", the checker treats the whole rule as the writer's — accurate for the content, slight overreach for the tag.

Rule 15 is explicit though: "Where part was said and part is your choice, split the line if you can. If you cannot, mark the whole line filled in and say in it which part you added." The SHOWS tag is "my choice" only if the text leaves it open. Rule: "General lines. Mark each as ALWAYS or USUALLY, and as MAKES or SHOWS. When the text leaves that open, choose, and mark your choice 'filled in'."

Does the text leave it open? "the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it" — I judge it settles SHOWS (it's a rule about how to tell, with the leaving-open as the sign). Hmm, "settles" — the text doesn't use MAKES/SHOWS words ever. The intent of "when the text leaves that open" is when both readings are live. Here, MAKES is not live in this direction (the effect precedes the "cause"). So the text settles it → the line is "said"? Hmm, but then the tag is still my formalization...

I'll go with "said" and explain in Readings I chose: "Sentence 2: the general line is ALWAYS (the text says 'always') and SHOWS (leaving the gate open comes only after the driving through, so it can only be how one tells, not what produces it). Both are settled by the text's wording; no choice was left open, so the line carries the mark said."

Hmm, that's a defensible, well-argued choice. But strictly "MAKES or SHOWS" is a classification the writer never made... I'll note it in readings and keep "said". Hmm.

Hmm, hmm, hmm. Risk assessment: the checker will run "added lines" test. If sh3 is said, fine. If filled in, it reports the translator's work. I prefer accuracy of attribution: the words are the writer's. But the instruction "mark your choice 'filled in'" is explicit when the choice is mine...

Let me decide it this way: The text's "always" settles ALWAYS (not a choice). The direction and the temporal order settle that it's a sign rule (SHOWS). Therefore the text settles it and the line is "said", and I'll document the reasoning in Readings I chose. But to be maximally transparent I'll also note in the line text "(kind SHOWS; settled by the order in the sentence)". Hmm — but then a reader might think I claimed the writer wrote "SHOWS". The line text will say: "[TOLD in shepherd_world] ALWAYS SHOWS: when [the shepherd leaves the gate open], then [the flock has been driven through the gate]". And readings explain.

Hmm, actually — hold on. Let me reconsider splitting: two lines:
- sh3 (said): the said content as a Habit or as a general line without the kind... no.

OK going with "said" + readings explanation. Hmm. Hmm. But rule 15 trap... "Where part was said and part is your choice". If no part is my choice, no problem. Fine. Decided: "said".

Hmm, wait. But actually there's a real question about whether it's ALWAYS or USUALLY... "always" settles ALWAYS. OK.

Now let me reconsider the SINCE line's exact content and the "must" modal.

"the shepherd had concluded the flock must be in the top field, since the gate stood open, and the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it."

- "concluded" → attribution → bin ("the shepherd had concluded"), content TOLD in shepherd_world.
- "must" → modal → bin ("must be").
- "in the top field" → fact sh1.
- "since the gate stood open, and [rule]" → the reason → SINCE.

So sh4: "[TOLD in shepherd_world] line sh1 SINCE line sh2 and line sh3". Prolog: two claim_since clauses? Or one? Let me reconsider: "Since C1 and C2" — the reason is the pair. The checker tests "whether C is a reason to expect or believe E... tested on what follows by any route". If I give reason = gate_open(gate), the checker finds no route (since sh3's antecedent is left_open_by(shepherd,gate), which never holds) → reports assumptions.

Alternatively, I could write the general rule's antecedent as `gate_open(gate)`. Hmm! Let me reconsider the rule's antecedent once more. The shepherd's rule, in effect: "that gate standing open only happens once the flock has been driven through it" — because he's the one who leaves it open. Hmm, the text says "the shepherd always left that gate open only once..." — the antecedent is his leaving it open.

But for the argument to have any route at all, the ledger would need "gate stood open ⇒ shepherd left gate open". Which is a plausible "usual case" line! "usual case: the translator added it as something everyone assumes." Hmm! That's interesting: it's something everyone assumes — the gate's open state is as the shepherd left it (he's the one who uses that gate). Hmm, is that "everyone assumes"? Maybe. But rule 9: an added line "may not take the place of the reason the writer actually gives". The writer's reason is "the gate stood open" + the rule. A usual-case line "the gate stands open only if someone left it open" or "the gate is open as the shepherd left it" would be an added premise.

Hmm. I think the honest translation leaves it out and lets the checker report "follows only on assumptions nobody stated" — which is exactly the interesting finding for this text. The text looks designed to test whether the checker catches the gap.

Hmm, but hold on. Let me reconsider: maybe the intended encoding is simpler — that "the gate stood open" IS the antecedent (the shepherd leaves the gate open = the gate stands open as he left it). In casual reasoning, "the gate stood open" + "he always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through" — the inference requires reading the gate's open state as his leaving it open. A translator might reasonably encode the rule as: "ALWAYS: when [the gate stands open], then [the flock has been driven through the gate]"? But that changes the said content ("he left it open" vs "it stood open").

I'll encode faithfully: antecedent = the shepherd's leaving the gate open. And I will NOT add the bridge. Record in readings.

Hmm, but then the SINCE test gives "no connection"/"jump" — fine, it's a finding.

Hmm, but hmm: should I fill in the bridge as an "obvious missing step" per the trap? The trap says "When you feel a missing step is obvious: write it as its own line, marked 'filled in'." Is "the gate standing open is the shepherd's leaving it open" obvious? Not really — someone else could have opened it. And rule 9's constraint: an added line "may not let the opposite follow just as well" — the opposite (someone else opened it) could follow just as well. So do NOT add it. 

Similarly for "driven through the gate ⇒ in the top field": the opposite (the gate leads elsewhere) could follow just as well → do NOT add. Good, rule 9 settles both.

So the shepherd's reasoning has two unstated steps, and the checker should report the SINCE as resting on unstated assumptions. 

Now the SINCE line's reason term. The reason offered is "the gate stood open" plus the rule. In the ledger form "line E SINCE line C" — one C. I'll write sh4 pointing at sh2 and sh3 both: "line sh1 SINCE line sh2 and line sh3" and give prolog two claim_since clauses (one per reason). Hmm, or a single claim_since with reason `gate_open(gate)`.

Think about what the checker does with claim_since(id, E, C): "It is tested on what follows by any route, and always reported with its unstated assumptions." So the checker takes C as the starting point and asks what follows. With C = gate_open(gate), the route needs the bridge. With C = driven_through(flock,gate) (the rule's consequent), the route to in(flock,top_field) needs the second bridge. Giving both reasons with two clauses would produce two findings, each naming one unstated assumption. That seems informative and faithful ("since C1 and C2").

Hmm, but is "driven_through(flock,gate)" the writer's reason? The writer's reason is the rule (sh3), and its consequent term is driven_through(flock,gate). Encoding check 3 says the fact term must be spelled exactly as in the holds() of the line it points at — sh3's holds() head is `driven_through(flock,gate)`. ✓.

Hmm, but semantically `claim_since(sh4, in(flock,top_field), driven_through(flock,gate))` says: "the flock's having been driven through is a reason to expect it's in the top field" — that's the second leg of the argument (with the unstated assumption being that the gate leads to the top field). And `claim_since(sh4, in(flock,top_field), gate_open(gate))` says "the gate's being open is a reason to expect the flock is in the top field" — the first leg (unstated assumption: the open gate is the shepherd's leaving it open... and also the whole chain).

Hmm, that double-encodes. Alternatively:
- sh4: line sh1 SINCE line sh2 (the gate's standing open is the reason to expect the conclusion) — with sh3 as the licensing rule in the ledger.
That's the most faithful to "since the gate stood open, and [rule]" where the "and"-clause is the license. And the checker will report the unstated assumptions (both bridges). One SINCE claim, clean.

I'll go with ONE claim_since: reason = gate_open(gate) — pointing at sh2 — and note in readings that sh3 is the rule the writer gives as licensing the inference (recorded as a general line, which the checker can use "by any route").

Hmm, but "by any route" — with sh3 requiring left_open_by(shepherd,gate), there is no route. The report will say "follows only on assumptions nobody stated" (listing the missing links). Good.

Hmm, but hmm — will the checker even find sh3 relevant? It might report "jump, with candidate missing lines". Fine.

OK now let me also double check the standing of the shepherd_world lines: "TOLD in world shepherd_world". And note_world lines: "TOLD in world note_world".

But wait — how much is in note_world? Let me list:
- note_world: nf1 "lower field was empty of grass" (said), things lower_field, grass.
- And the note's report of the shepherd's conclusion → attribution binned; content in shepherd_world.
- And the note's ending with the time → the ending is actual (the narrator asserts it), the recorded time → bin.

Hmm, but then what does the note_world consist of regarding the shepherd? Nothing but a binned attribution. Is that OK? Per T10D, the attribution ("The account says") is binned and "scopes all reported contents to account_world". Here, the scoping attribution for the shepherd's conclusion is "He wrote that ... the shepherd had concluded", which scopes to... the note world and then the shepherd's world. Hmm, two nested scopes.

Alternative simpler approach: ONE told world "note_world" for everything the note says, and within it, the shepherd's conclusion content is TOLD in shepherd_world... nested. Or: make the shepherd's conclusion content TOLD in shepherd_world only, and note_world holds the foreman's own observation.

Hmm, alternatively: skip note_world entirely and have:
- shepherd_world (TOLD): the shepherd's conclusion + its reason (as the note reports it).
- foreman_sight_world? For "the lower field was empty of grass" from what he saw himself — that's the foreman's own observation written into the note. Is it TOLD in note_world or CLAIMED in actual? Hmm! "The foreman added, from what he saw himself, that the lower field was empty of grass." The narrator says the foreman added this to the note. The content — did the narrator assert that the lower field was empty of grass? He asserts that the foreman wrote it, on his own authority. The safest: TOLD in note_world (the note says it). Because the narrator doesn't himself assert the field's state; he reports the note's content.

So note_world = what the note says = {lower field empty of grass} + {the shepherd concluded ...} (whose content goes to shepherd_world).

Hmm, if the attribution is binned "and scopes all reported contents to shepherd_world", then note_world just has nf1. That's fine and clean.

Hmm, but hmm — is the shepherd's conclusion content *also* in note_world (the note says the flock is in the top field — as a report)? The note says "the shepherd concluded X", not "X". So no.

OK. Two told worlds: `note_world` and `shepherd_world`. Hmm — but is that "a case inside a case"? The trap is about named cases; told worlds nested... The note reports a person's conclusion — the rule 39 explicitly directs "write the content as TOLD in that person's world", so a second world is right.

But hmm, the told-world rule says a told world "does not inherit the actual ledger" and "state inside it every fact its argument needs". So shepherd_world must contain its own things (shepherd, flock, gate, top_field) and facts. ✓. And note_world contains lower_field, grass, and its fact. ✓.

Hmm — but should the shepherd's world also contain the note's report? No.

One more consideration: the foreman "wrote that the shepherd had concluded..." — the happening of writing is actual. And "kept notes" actual. Good.

Now let me also think: is there a BECAUSE anywhere? "since" → SINCE. ✓ ("Read the meaning; words like 'so' are a clue"). Yes, the shepherd's reason to believe → SINCE.

What about sentence 3: "The foreman added, from what he saw himself, that the lower field was empty of grass." No causal claim.

Sentence 4: no causal claim.

Sentence 1: no causal claim.

Now — the "must be in the top field" — "must" → bin (modal). And "concluded" → bin (attribution).

Also "the flock must be in the top field" — is the conclusion CLAIMED within shepherd_world? Within shepherd_world it's what the shepherd concluded, so within that world it's the asserted content: standing TOLD in world shepherd_world (all lines in a told world carry standing TOLD in that world). ✓.

Now sentence numbering and the "Sentence" column values.

Let me now write all lines with ids.

Actual ledger:
| id | standing | content | mark | sentence |
- `foreman` — thing — "[CLAIMED] foreman is a farm_foreman; response to a press not stated; DOER" — said — 1
- `note` — thing — "[CLAIMED] note is a note; response to a press not stated" — said — 1
- `rounds` — thing — "[CLAIMED] rounds is a rounds; response to a press not stated" — said — 1

Hmm, "rounds is a rounds" is ugly. Let me name the thing `rounds` and kind `evening_rounds`? "evening" is binned... The kind can be `rounds_event`? Hmm. Let me use kind(rounds, walk)? No, guess. Use `kind(rounds, rounds)` — like `kind(window, window)` in T10D. Fine. Actually, hmm, what about naming it `rounds` and kind `rounds`? The text: "his evening rounds", "the rounds". OK: "rounds is a rounds". Hmm, maybe better: kind(rounds, event) and note "the text calls it 'his evening rounds'". Eh. Let me do `kind(rounds, rounds)`. Hmm, I could name the thing "rounds" with kind "farm_rounds"? No. Keep `rounds`.

Hmm, actually maybe I should think of "rounds" as an EVENT (kind 14)? No, kind 14 is for lining up two events.

Fine: thing line "rounds is a rounds; response to a press not stated; DOER: not stated" — hmm, "it may be a DOER" — the rounds are the occasion, not a doer. I'll just say "rounds is a rounds; response to a press not stated".

- `p1` — happening — "[CLAIMED] p1: foreman KEPT note" — said — 1- `f1` — fact — "[CLAIMED] the note was kept on the foreman's rounds" — said — 1

Hmm, f1 duplicates p1's content with the rounds link. Alternatively fold into p1: "p1: foreman KEPT note [occasion: rounds]". The happening shape is "NAME: DOER VERB THING [DIRECTION]" — the occasion isn't a direction. So a separate fact is cleaner: f1: "note was kept on the foreman's rounds" (a fact about the note: "note was kept on the foreman's rounds" — plain description). OK.

Hmm, but is f1 CLAIMED or GIVEN? "The farm foreman kept notes on his evening rounds." — main clause asserts keeping; "on his evening rounds" is an adjunct (a "when"/occasion description) → per rule 4, descriptions ("as", "while", "-ing") are GIVEN. "on his evening rounds" is such an adjunct → GIVEN. So f1: GIVEN, said. And p1: CLAIMED, said. Good.

Bin for sentence 1: "evening" — time of day → outside the language. Hmm, the words binned should be "the words from the text". Binning just "evening" — but then the phrase "his evening rounds" is partly in the ledger (f1 says "on the foreman's rounds"). OK: bin entry: words "evening", reason: "time of day; the language has no form for when". Good.

- `nf_things` etc.

Let me continue:

Sentence 2:
Actual:
- `p2` — happening — "[CLAIMED] p2: foreman WROTE [in the note]" — hmm the thing. "He wrote that P" — the object of writing is the content/record. Let me write p2: "p2: foreman WROTE record" where `record` is... hmm, or reuse `note`: "p2: foreman WROTE in note"? The shape needs THING. Let me write "p2: foreman WROTE note entry" with thing `entry`? Adding a new thing `entry` (a note entry). Hmm. Or treat "wrote" as taking the note as its thing: "p2: foreman WROTE note" (he wrote the note). That's natural: he wrote [in] the note. I'll write "p2: foreman WROTE note [content: the shepherd's conclusion report]" and give `note` its thing line (already have). Let me keep p2: "p2: foreman WROTE note" — simple. Then the content is TOLD lines.

Bin sentence 2: "that the shepherd had concluded" — the attribution (who concludes what) → bin, scoping the content to shepherd_world. And "must" (modal). Two bin entries for sentence 2.

shepherd_world (TOLD in world shepherd_world):
- `shepherd` — thing — "[TOLD in shepherd_world] shepherd is a shepherd; response to a press not stated; DOER" — said — 2
- `flock` — thing — "[TOLD in shepherd_world] flock is a flock; response to a press not stated" — said — 2
- `gate` — thing — "[TOLD in shepherd_world] gate is a gate; response to a press not stated" — said — 2
- `top_field` — thing — "[TOLD in shepherd_world] top_field is a field; response to a press not stated" — said — 2

Hmm — should shepherd be TOLD in shepherd_world? The shepherd is the person whose thinking it is; he exists in the note's report. The conclusion is his. Putting the shepherd thing inside his own world is a bit odd but consistent (the world is looked at alone and needs its things). Hmm, alternatively put `shepherd` in note_world (the note names him) and the rest in shepherd_world. But then shepherd_world lacks a name for the shepherd (needed for the general line's antecedent "the shepherd leaves the gate open").

Hmm. Since a told world is looked at alone and doesn't inherit, shepherd_world needs the shepherd. I'll put the shepherd thing line in shepherd_world. And also the note_world references the shepherd in the binned attribution... fine.

Hmm, wait. Let me reconsider the whole world structure once more. Alternative: ONE world `note_world` containing everything the note says, including the shepherd's conclusion and reasons, and bin only the attributions ("he wrote that", "the shepherd had concluded", "from what he saw himself") — with the note that the shepherd's conclusion content is TOLD in note_world as reported. This is simpler, one level deep, and the checker's SINCE test runs inside note_world.

But rule 39: "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." — "that person's world" = the shepherd's world. That's explicit. So the conclusion content must be TOLD in a world named for the shepherd. OK, two worlds. And the lower field content — attributed to the foreman's own sight; "from what he saw himself" is about the source of knowledge (who knows what → bin). The content is written in the note → TOLD in note_world. Hmm, or is it the foreman's world? "Who believes, knows or wants what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." — "from what he saw himself" attributes knowledge to the foreman. Should the content go to "foreman_sight" world? Hmm! "the foreman added, from what he saw himself, that the lower field was empty of grass" — the foreman asserts it in the note on his own authority. The note says it (the note is the foreman's own record). 

Hmm, since the foreman's note IS the foreman's own statement, the note_world and the foreman's assertion coincide here. I'll put it in note_world (the note says it) and bin the "from what he saw himself" as the source attribution. I'll note this in readings: the phrase is an attribution of the source of the foreman's knowledge (who knows what — outside the language) and the content is TOLD in note_world because the note is the foreman's own record.

Good.

Now, hmm, one concern: the checker "counts the findings of the first asking that the second does not give" with general lines added for each world. Fine.

Continuing shepherd_world lines:
- `sh1` — fact — "[TOLD in shepherd_world] flock is in the top field" — said — 2. Hmm, standing within the world: the shepherd concluded it → within shepherd_world it's the asserted content. Standing "TOLD in world shepherd_world". ✓
- `sh2` — fact — "[TOLD in shepherd_world] gate stood open [stage: at the shepherd's conclusion]" — said — 2.

Stage: is there a state change? Not really; but "stood open" at a time. Rule 13 requires a stage when the thing's state changes in the text. The gate's state isn't said to change. But it matters that it's open at the time of the shepherd's reasoning. Hmm, I'll include the stage "[stage: when the shepherd reasoned]" — it's harmless and informative. Or drop it. I'll include it as part of the fact text but keep prolog simple: `holds(gate_open(gate))`. Hmm, mismatch between the text's stage and prolog — fine, prolog is the checked form. Actually let me keep the stage out of the prolog term but in the line text. OK.

Hmm, actually maybe cleaner without the stage: "gate stood open". The time is implied by the sentence. But rule 13... the gate's state doesn't change in the text. Drop the stage. Simpler. Hmm, but "stood" is a stage-ish word... I'll write "gate stood open [stage: at the time of the shepherd's conclusion]" — informative. Hmm, "at the time of" is a "when" → outside the language! Careful: "When, beyond the order of a chain and the stage named in a fact" goes to the bin. So stage names in facts ARE allowed ("the door open in the morning"). So "[stage: when the shepherd reasoned]" is a stage named in a fact → allowed. OK, keep it.

- `sh3` — general line — "[TOLD in shepherd_world] ALWAYS SHOWS: when [the shepherd leaves the gate open], then [the flock has been driven through the gate]" — said — 2. With note about "only once" → only-ways with one way. Hmm, where to note it? In the line text: "...; 'only once' makes this the single way (an only-ways line with one way)". Hmm, that's meta-text in the content field. Maybe put in Readings. I'll add a short bracket note in the line text as the examples do (e.g. P14 line a: "ALWAYS SHOWS: a helping member pays the cost; generic description"). Yes, examples append such notes after a semicolon. Good.

So sh3 text: "[TOLD in shepherd_world] ALWAYS SHOWS: when [the shepherd leaves the gate open], then [the flock has been driven through the gate]; the words 'only once' make this the single permitted way"

Prolog: `holds(driven_through(flock, gate)) :- line(sh3), holds(left_open_by(shepherd, gate)).`

Hmm, and since it's ALWAYS SHOWS, no exception clause. ✓

Hmm, and should I also add the only-ways denial form: `holds(not_left_open_by(shepherd,gate)) :- line(sh3), denied(driven_through(flock,gate)).`? The guide says the only-ways line is "Written out as a general line: when every listed way is denied, the content is denied." Hmm — since the text's "only once" is the only-ways form, maybe I should write the general line as its contrapositive. Hmm. But the shepherd's inference direction is the forward one. Let me write sh3 with the forward direction (which is what "A leaves open only once B" licenses: A ⇒ B) — and the "only" nuance recorded in the text note. Good.

- `sh4` — claim about lines — "[TOLD in shepherd_world] line sh1 SINCE line sh2; line sh3 gives the rule" — hmm, "Claims about lines point; they do not restate." Writing "line sh1 SINCE line sh2" is fine. Mentioning sh3 as the license — is that restating? No, it's pointing. But the line-13 shape is "line E SINCE line C" — one C. I'll write "line sh1 SINCE line sh2" and record in readings that sh3 is the rule the writer supplies alongside. Hmm, but then the ledger doesn't point from sh4 to sh3... The general line sh3 is in the ledger and available.

Hmm, hmm. Alternatively write sh4 as "[TOLD in shepherd_world] line sh1 SINCE line sh2 and line sh3" and give two claim_since clauses. Let me think about which produces a better checker report... With reason=gate_open(gate): the checker asks what follows from gate_open(gate) — via sh3 (needs left_open_by) — nothing. So "follows only on assumptions nobody stated" or "no connection". Hmm.

With two reasons: reason1=gate_open(gate), reason2=driven_through(flock,gate) — the second has a route? From driven_through(flock,gate) to in(flock,top_field) — no rule → "no connection"/jump.

Either way, findings about unstated assumptions. I'll go with the single SINCE pointing at sh2 (the fact offered as the reason), with sh3 in the ledger as the licensing rule. And in "Readings I chose" I explain.

Hmm, wait. Actually, let me reconsider — maybe better to point the SINCE at both, since the sentence's "since" clause explicitly includes both ("since the gate stood open, and the shepherd always left that gate open only once..."). The "and"-clause is inside the since-clause. So the writer offers both as the reason. Faithfulness: sh4: "line sh1 SINCE line sh2 and line sh3". Prolog: two claim_since clauses with id sh4. Hmm, "Every fact term used in a claim_since ... is spelled exactly as in the holds(...) of the line it points at" — sh3's holds head is driven_through(flock,gate) ✓.

Hmm, but that asserts two separate SINCE claims each of which the checker tests alone. The checker reports each with unstated assumptions. That's two findings, each informative. But it slightly misrepresents ("each alone is a reason").

Alternatively... the guide allows multiple prolog clauses per line. I could write one clause with a compound reason and accept a slight deviation from check 3? No — check 3 is a final check I must satisfy.

Decision: single SINCE, reason = gate_open(gate), pointing at sh2, with sh3 noted in the line text as the rule the writer gives ("line sh1 SINCE line sh2; the writer's rule line sh3 licenses the step"). Hmm, that mentions sh3 — pointing, not restating. I think it's fine and informative. But the shape "line E SINCE line C" strictly... the extra clause is a note. Examples append notes after semicolons. OK.

Hmm, hmm. But actually, hmm: is it more faithful to say the reason is the pair? "since the gate stood open, and the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it" — In natural language, "since A and B" gives two reasons/premises. The shepherd's argument: A (gate open) + B (rule) ⊢ conclusion. The SINCE's "reason" is the premise set {A, B}. Since the language's SINCE points at one line, and the rule B is itself a line... 

I'll write TWO SINCE lines? No.

Final: sh4 points at sh2 and sh3 both in the text field ("line sh1 SINCE line sh2 and line sh3"), and the prolog has two claim_since clauses (one per reason line, each spelled as its line's holds term). Hmm, no — that says each is independently a reason.

Ugh. OK, alternative that satisfies both: one claim_since with reason = `gate_open(gate)`, and mention sh3 in the text field. This says: the reason to expect sh1 is sh2 (given the rule sh3, which is in the ledger and which the checker uses "by any route"). This is exactly how the checker is designed to work: "It is tested on what follows by any route" — i.e., the reason plus everything else in the ledger. Yes! "by any route" means the checker uses all the ledger's rules to see what follows from C. So the SINCE's C is the fact, and the rules (including sh3) provide the route. That's the design. 

So sh4: "[TOLD in shepherd_world] line sh1 SINCE line sh2; the shepherd's rule line sh3 is the licence he gives" — hmm, keep it short: "line sh1 SINCE line sh2". And note sh3's role in readings. Hmm, I'd like the ledger to show the connection. The sentence structure is "since A and B" — I'll write: "line sh1 SINCE line sh2, with line sh3 as the rule". Hmm. That's a note, allowed.

Let me write sh4 text: "[TOLD in shepherd_world] line sh1 SINCE line sh2; line sh3 is the rule the shepherd gives with it". Prolog: `claim_since(sh4, in(flock, top_field), gate_open(gate)) :- line(sh4).`

Check 3: in(flock,top_field) spelled exactly as in sh1's holds: `holds(in(flock, top_field))` ✓. gate_open(gate) as sh2's `holds(gate_open(gate))` ✓.

Hmm, one thing: sh1 is "the flock must be in the top field" — "must" binned. So sh1 = "flock is in the top field" → `holds(in(flock, top_field))`. ✓

Sentence 3:
Actual:
- `p3` — happening — "[CLAIMED] p3: foreman ADDED entry to note" — hmm. Let me simplify: "p3: foreman ADDED to note" — needs THING. Use the thing `entry`? Add thing line `entry`: "entry is a note entry; response to a press not stated". Hmm, the text says "The foreman added ... that the lower field was empty of grass" — he added [the statement] to the note. I think introducing `entry` as a thing is fine and clean: entry is an entry (of the note). Hmm, or write it as a fact: "the note carries the record that the lower field was empty of grass" — hmm.

Let me use: p3: "p3: foreman ADDED entry" with thing `entry` (TOLD? no — the entry is in the note, which is actual: the note is a real object). Hmm, but the entry's content is TOLD. The entry object itself is actual (the foreman really added it). Hmm, is it? The narrator says he added it. So actual: thing `entry` is an entry; response not stated (CLAIMED). And the content nf1 TOLD in note_world.

Hmm, this is getting complicated. Simpler: p3: "p3: foreman ADDED to note the record nf1" — the happening's thing = note: "p3: foreman ADDED note [with nf1]"? Hmm.

Let me define: `entry` as a thing (the added entry). p3: "p3: foreman ADDED entry [to the note]" — hmm, direction "to the note"? Directions are toward X, away from X, up, down, across. "toward the note"? Eh.

Honestly, maybe cleaner to skip the happening and use a fact: "f2: the note carries an entry saying that the lower field was empty of grass" — but then who did what is lost.

Let me look at the task again: "Happenings. Write who did what to what, and which way, using the text's own verb. Keep the push, the movement and the link between them; send words of degree such as 'so hard' to the bin." This is about physical happenings with pushes. For "The foreman added that P" the doing is a writing act. I think a happening line is right: "p3: foreman ADDED entry" with `entry` a thing, no direction stated.

Similarly p2: "foreman WROTE entry"? Hmm — "He wrote that P" — he wrote the entry. Let me have one thing `entry` for the shepherd's-conclusion report and another for the lower-field statement? Or one `entry` per addition. Hmm. Let me simplify: the note is the thing; the happenings are "foreman KEPT note", "foreman WROTE note", "foreman ADDED to note"... 

New idea: treat "wrote"/"added" as facts about the note's content:
- f2 (CLAIMED, said): "the note records the shepherd's conclusion" — hmm, that's the attribution → bin.

Hmm! Right: the attribution "He wrote that the shepherd had concluded" is binned. So what remains of sentence 2 in the actual ledger? The happening "foreman wrote [it]" and the told content. Hmm — but if the attribution is binned, do I still write p2 (foreman WROTE note)? The narrator does assert that he wrote it. Yes, p2 is asserted (the writing happened). And the content is scoped to shepherd_world. So both.

Wait, but careful: example_T10D binned "The account says" and wrote only TOLD content plus the account thing — no happening "account said". Because "The account says" is the attribution frame itself. Here "He wrote that the shepherd had concluded P" — "He wrote" is a doing by the foreman (asserted), "that the shepherd had concluded P" is the reported content. Two layers of report: (1) the foreman wrote [X]; (2) X = "the shepherd had concluded P" → the shepherd's conclusion.

So bin entries for sentence 2: "that the shepherd had concluded" (the inner attribution, scoping P and its reason to shepherd_world) and "must" (modal). And p2 stays in the actual ledger as the foreman's writing.

Hmm, but what exactly did he write? The content. The content is TOLD in shepherd_world. But the note's writing of it is actual. Fine: p2: "p2: foreman WROTE note" and the note's content lines are TOLD in shepherd_world (per the rule: attribution → bin, content → that person's world).

Hmm, but shouldn't the note's content be in note_world with a nested report? I've decided: the inner attribution goes to the bin and scopes content to shepherd_world. But then the fact that the note contains this report is captured by p2 + the bin entry. Acceptable — and I'll note it in readings.

Hmm, hmm. Alternatively make it: note_world contains "the note records that the shepherd concluded ..." — but the language has no "records that" content kind except facts... `holds(recorded(note, shepherd_concluded))`. Meh.

OK, decision made. Let me simplify the happenings: use `entry` as a thing? Let me avoid extra things. Use:
- p2: "p2: foreman WROTE note" (the note is the thing written).
- p3: "p3: foreman ADDED entry to note"? or "p3: foreman ADDED entry"? Let me define `entry` as a thing: "entry is a note entry; response to a press not stated" — CLAIMED, said (sentence 3). Hmm, the text says "The foreman added ... that the lower field was empty of grass" — the object added is the statement. So `entry` = the statement added. thing line for `entry`, kind `entry`.

Hmm, but rule 3: "Every thing in a happening must have a thing line of its own." So p3's things: foreman (has line), entry (needs line). OK.

Hmm, but is `entry` a thing named by the text? The text doesn't name it. It's implicit ("added [it]"). Mark the thing line "filled in" (the name is mine; the text says only "added"). Hmm. Or use `note` as the thing: "p3: foreman ADDED note [the statement about the lower field]"? Hmm.

Alternatively write p3 as: "p3: foreman ADDED [the lower-field statement] to note" with the thing being the statement, named `lower_field_record`. Hmm.

Let me simplify by choosing: p3: "p3: foreman ADDED entry" and thing line `entry` marked "filled in" with text: "[CLAIMED] entry is an entry of the note; response to a press not stated — the text says 'added' without naming what was added; the translator names it entry". Hmm, that's rule 15-ish.

Hmm, alternatively: don't use a happening for "added"; use a fact: f3 (CLAIMED, said): "the note carries the entry nf1"? Ugh.

Let me think about what the checker needs: it checks facts, general lines, claims about lines. The happenings matter only for physical laws and BECAUSE-through-laws. Here, no physical laws apply. The writings/adding are just narrative frame. So facts suffice and are simpler. But the task's rules say to write happenings for "who did what to what". Since the prose says "He wrote" and "The foreman added", these are doings.

Compromise: I'll write them as happenings with the note/entry as things, marking verb shapes as not in the shape book (reported "not checked" by the checker). Let me use these:

- p1: "p1: foreman KEPT note" (things: foreman, note) — said, s1.
- p2: "p2: foreman WROTE entry" — hmm, "He wrote that P" — the entry is what he wrote. Let me define `entry` once as a thing: "entry is a record in the note" covering both the shepherd's report and the lower-field statement? Two separate additions → two entries? The text: "He wrote that..." and "The foreman added ... that ...". So there's a written record and an added statement. Could both be `entry`? Let me name two: `report_entry` and `sight_entry`? Names must be plain lower-case words. Hmm, "report" and "sight"?Hmm, hmm. Simplify: use `note` as the object of both "wrote" and "added": "p2: foreman WROTE note" and "p3: foreman ADDED to note"... "ADDED to note" — the THING slot is the note. Hmm, "added" takes the added thing as its object. But I can write "p3: foreman ADDED entry [to note]"... 

Let me just do: things `note`, `entry1`, `entry2`? Meh.

Cleanest compromise: treat the writings as facts about the note, not happenings:
- f2 (CLAIMED, said): "the note holds the shepherd's report [content: sh lines]" — hmm.

Hmm hmm. Let me look at the spirit: "Happenings. Write who did what to what, and which way, using the text's own verb. Keep the push, the movement and the link between them" — this is about physical causation. For non-physical doings ("wrote", "added", "kept"), the happening form with an unchecked verb is still the shape the language offers (kind 4). I'll write them, using `note` and `entry` as things, and give `entry` one thing line marked "filled in" (the name is the translator's; the text says only "added [it]").

Hmm, actually — "He wrote that P": the object is the content. And "The foreman added, ..., that Q": object is the content. So one thing per content: `shepherd_report` and `field_note`? Names: plain lower-case words. Let me use `report` and `sight_note`? Hmm. Or `entry` and `addition`?

Let me name: `report` (the written report of the shepherd's conclusion) and `addition` (the added statement about the lower field). Hmm, "addition" is odd. Alternatively `first_entry`/`second_entry` — names with underscores OK.

Hmm, how about I make it simple: both are `entry` — one thing kind "entry", with two instances? No, names must be unique per thing.

Let me use: `shepherd_entry` and `field_entry`. Hmm, "plain lower-case names" — underscores allowed (only trailing _N forbidden). OK: `shepherd_entry`, `field_entry`. Hmm, but they're a bit clunky.

Alternatively drop happenings for p2/p3 and write facts:
- f2 (CLAIMED, said): "the note records the shepherd's conclusion [see shepherd_world]" — hmm.

You know, let me reconsider using facts here — the fact kind is "THING plus any plain description". So: "note carries the shepherd's report" is a fact about the note. And "note carries the lower-field statement" is a fact. These say who did what implicitly. But the task says happenings...

I'll go with happenings and name the things `report` and `addition`:
- thing `report`: "report is a note entry; response to a press not stated" (filled in: the text says "wrote that ...", naming no object; the translator names the written entry `report`).
- thing `addition`: "addition is a note entry; response to a press not stated" (filled in, same reason).

Hmm, that's two extra filled-in thing lines and clutter. Alternatively use `note` for both: "p2: foreman WROTE note" (he wrote the note — natural English: "He wrote that P" = he wrote in the note) and "p3: foreman ADDED entry to note"... 

Hmm, "ADDED to note" — actually I can write the happening as "p3: foreman ADDED statement" where `statement`... 

OK let me step back and simplify decisively:

Happenings:
- p1: foreman KEPT note (s1)
- p2: foreman WROTE note (s2) — "He wrote [in the note] that..." — the note is the thing written on. Natural enough.
- p3: foreman ADDED note (s3) — hmm, "added to the note". "p3: foreman ADDED note" reads as he added the note. Hmm.

Alternative: p3: foreman ADDED entry, thing `entry` (one thing line, filled-in name, covering both additions? but p2's object is the note).

Hmm — actually here's a cleaner framing: p2 and p3 are both about adding content to the note. Let me use ONE happening for the writing of the shepherd's report (p2: foreman WROTE report) and ONE for the addition (p3: foreman ADDED sight_entry), with two thing lines. Or merge: since both are "the foreman put content in the note", and the text distinguishes "wrote" and "added".

Fine — I'll bite the bullet: two things `report` and `sight_entry`, both "is a note entry; response to a press not stated", marked filled in with a note that the text names no object for "wrote"/"added" and the translator names the written entries.

Hmm, hold on. Is that even needed? Rule 3: "Every thing in a happening must have a thing line of its own. This is required, not a choice: a happening whose things have no lines of their own is an incomplete translation." So if I write happenings, I need thing lines for all their things. If instead I write facts ("the note carries the shepherd's report"), I need only the note's thing line. Facts avoid inventing things.

Given rule 9 (added lines must not do the writer's work) and rule 3, and to minimize invention, maybe facts are better here for the non-physical doings? But the task explicitly says "Happenings. Write who did what to what... using the text's own verb."

Hmm, but "the text's own verb" for "He wrote that P" is "wrote". A happening "p2: foreman WROTE note" uses the text's verb and the text's things (foreman, note). "He wrote [in the note]" — the note is a reasonable object (it's the notes he kept). I'll use the note as the thing for both p2 and p3 with verbs WROTE and ADDED:
- p2: "p2: foreman WROTE note" — hmm, "wrote the note" vs "wrote in the note". Since "He wrote that P" has no explicit object, using `note` as the object is a filled-in reading (he wrote it in the note). I'll mark p2 "filled in"? Hmm, but "He wrote that the shepherd had concluded P" clearly means he wrote it in the notes. The object being the note is plain.

Hmm, let me mark p2 and p3 as "said" with the note/entry objects and record in readings that "wrote" and "added" have no named object in the text and the translator takes the note as the thing written on. Hmm, rule 15 says if part is my choice, split or mark filled in with a note.

ALTERNATIVE clean solution: write p2/p3 as happenings whose THING is the note, and mark "filled in" with the note in the text: "[CLAIMED] p2: foreman WROTE note — 'wrote' has no named object in the text; the translator takes the note as the thing written on". That's rule 15 compliant. Similarly p3: "[CLAIMED] p3: foreman ADDED entry to note — 'added' names no object; the translator takes the added entry as `entry`" — hmm.

Simplify p3: "[CLAIMED] p3: foreman ADDED to note — the text names no object for 'added'". Hmm, the shape needs a THING...

Decision (final): 
- p2: "p2: foreman WROTE note" — mark: filled in — note: "'wrote' has no named object in the sentence; the note is the translator's pick". Hmm, but then the whole line is filled in even though "He wrote that P" plainly says he wrote. Hmm hmm.

Hmm, OK alternative: keep p2 as a fact: f2 (CLAIMED, said): "the note carries the shepherd's report" — the text's "He wrote that..." says this. Then no invented object. And "who did what" is captured by "the note carries..." + foreman's authorship... hmm, loses "foreman wrote".

Argh. Let me think about which the checker cares about: nothing much. Which is more faithful/complete for a reader rebuilding commitments? Both fine.

I'll go with happenings + `note` as the object, marked "said" for p1 ("kept notes" — object named) and for p2/p3 marked "said" too but with a reading note in section 4 ("Sentence 2: 'He wrote that P' names no object; I take the note as the thing written on; the content is TOLD..."). Hmm, but rule 15's letter...

Hmm, "Readings I chose" is exactly the place for such interpretive picks ("the readings open to me, the one I took"). Rule 15 concerns source marks for lines where part is said and part is my choice. If I consider the object-pick a "reading" rather than an "added content", then "said" + reading note is defensible. Example P14 readings show exactly this style ("Open readings: ...; Chosen: ..."). And T10D readings: "'opening the window' has no named actor. I retain it as the Fact 'window was opened', rather than invent a person..." — marked said! Yes: T10D's `opening` line is marked "said" with text "window was opened; opener not named". So an unnamed doer/object is handled by keeping the line "said" and noting "not named". 

So: p2: "[CLAIMED] p2: foreman WROTE note; object of writing not named, the note is the record" — hmm. T10D style: "window was opened; opener not named". So I can write: "p2: foreman WROTE note — what he wrote is not named in the sentence" hmm.

Let me use the T10D pattern with a fact-ish happening:
- p2: "[CLAIMED] p2: foreman WROTE note" — said — and a reading note.

Hmm, or even better, follow T10D exactly: it wrote `holds(opened(window))` as a Fact ("window was opened; opener not named") because the opener was unnamed. Here the doer (foreman) IS named; the object is unnamed. Mirror: "note was written; writer foreman" hmm.

I'll do this:
- p2 (happening, said, s2): "p2: foreman WROTE note" — with reading note: "'He wrote that P' names no object; I take the note (the notes he kept) as what he wrote in."
- p3 (happening, said, s3): "p3: foreman ADDED note entry" — hmm.

OK you know what — "The foreman added ... that Q": the natural object is "the statement that Q" = the entry. I'll name the thing `entry` with a thing line marked "filled in" and note "the text names no object for 'added'; the translator names the added statement `entry`". One extra thing line. Fine. And for p2, use `note` as the object (he wrote in the note) — reading noted.

Hmm, but asymmetry. Alternatively both use `entry`... p2: "foreman WROTE entry"? and p3: "foreman ADDED entry"? Two entries though.

Let me define ONE thing `entry` for sentence 3's addition, and use `note` for p2. Slight asymmetry but each is natural.

Hmm, wait. Actually, maybe simpler and cleaner: for both p2 and p3, use `note` as the thing with verbs WROTE and ADDED:
- p2: "p2: foreman WROTE note"
- p3: "p3: foreman ADDED to note" → to fit shape "DOER VERB THING": "p3: foreman ADDED note [entry]"? 

Eh. "p3: foreman ADDED note" is wrong English-wise (he added to the note).

FINE: use `entry` for both, one thing line, and p2: "foreman WROTE entry", p3: "foreman ADDED entry"? But they're two different entries (the shepherd's report and the lower-field statement). If one thing `entry` covers both... no, one name one thing.

FINAL: two things, `report` and `addition`? Hmm, "report" collides with the checker's report. Use `written_entry` and `added_entry`? Hmm.

Hmm, how about this: since the content lines themselves (TOLD) carry the substance, the happenings can be minimal facts:
- f2 (CLAIMED, said, s2): "the note records the shepherd's conclusion" — hmm, this is the attribution which is supposed to go to the bin!

Hmm! Wait. Actually is it? Rule: "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." The attribution here is "the shepherd had concluded" → bin. And "He wrote that" → the foreman's writing → that's a happening (asserted), not an attribution of belief. Hmm, or is "He wrote that P" itself an attribution (the note says P)? In T10D, "The account says P" → the whole frame binned and P TOLD in account_world. By analogy, "He wrote that [the shepherd had concluded P]" → the frame "He wrote that" is like "The account says" → bin?! And then what's left in the actual ledger for sentence 2? Nothing but things?

Hmm! In T10D, "The account says" was binned: "The attribution is retained here and scopes all reported contents to account_world. The account's existence is GIVEN; neither its described opening, its dryness nor its causal claim is asserted in the actual ledger." So the whole sentence was reported content — nothing asserted in the actual ledger except the account's existence (GIVEN).

Here, B01 sentence 2: "He wrote that the shepherd had concluded P." The narrator asserts: the foreman wrote [this]. Is that an assertion about the actual world (the note contains the report)? Yes — the narrator of B01 asserts that the foreman wrote it. Compare T10D: "The account says opening the window caused the letter to stay dry" — the narrator asserts nothing beyond the account's saying so; the account's saying-so was put in the bin as the scoping attribution, with the account's existence GIVEN.

Hmm, so by that pattern, "He wrote that X" → bin "He wrote that" as the attribution scoping X, and the foreman's existence GIVEN (or CLAIMED from sentence 1). And the writing happening... T10D didn't create a happening "account said/says". So the parallel handling: bin "He wrote that" with reason "attribution scoping the reported content to shepherd_world", and no writing happening.

Hmm, but sentence 1 "The farm foreman kept notes on his evening rounds" IS an actual assertion (the narrator asserts the foreman kept notes) — not reported content. And sentence 4 "The note ended with the time the rounds had finished" — actual assertion.

And sentence 3: "The foreman added, from what he saw himself, that the lower field was empty of grass." — the narrator asserts the foreman added this. Hmm, so the adding is asserted... but the content is what he added → reported → TOLD.

Hmm. So is "He wrote that X" asserting a writing event? In T10D-style reading, "The account says X" is the attribution frame → binned. Here "He wrote that X" is similar but with a named writer and an action verb.

Hmm, I think there's a meaningful difference: "The account says" (a document's content) vs "He wrote that" (a person performed a writing). In B01, the narrator is reporting the note's contents. The sentence "He wrote that the shepherd had concluded P" asserts (a) the foreman wrote something in the note, (b) what he wrote was that the shepherd had concluded P.

For the ledger: (a) is an actual happening (CLAIMED). (b) is the note's content → TOLD.

But then per the "who concludes what" rule, within (b), "the shepherd had concluded" is a further attribution → bin, and P goes to shepherd_world.

Hmm, but if the attribution "the shepherd had concluded" is binned and P goes to shepherd_world, then the note's content (b) is... the note says the shepherd concluded P. If we bin the attribution, we lose the fact that the note says it and only have P in shepherd_world. But the bin entry records the attribution and says it scopes P to shepherd_world. In T10D exactly this happened (the account's saying is binned and content scoped to account_world). Fine. So consistent handling: bin the attributions ("He wrote that", "the shepherd had concluded", "from what he saw himself") and put contents in worlds.

But should I keep the happening "foreman wrote note"? In T10D there was no "account states" happening. Hmm, but T10D's sentence had no action verb, just "The account says". Here "He wrote" is an action by a person. I'll keep p2 as an actual happening (the foreman's doing is asserted by the narrator) — it's part of "what the writer committed to" (the note's provenance). Hmm, but then "He wrote that" isn't purely an attribution frame...

Hmm, hmm. Let me look at the risk: if I write p2: "foreman WROTE note" (CLAIMED, actual) and also bin "He wrote that", that's double-accounting the same words — but rule says every sentence appears in ledger, bin, or both. Both is allowed. And the bin reason can say: "the attribution 'He wrote that' scopes the reported content to shepherd_world; the writing itself is kept as happening p2".

Hmm, that seems fine and complete. But it might confuse the checker? No, the bin is just listed.

Alternatively, simplest and closest to T10D: bin "He wrote that" entirely as the scoping attribution and note that the note's content is TOLD; and ALSO have p2? Hmm.

Let me decide: keep p2 as an actual happening (foreman WROTE note), since sentence 1 established the note and the narrator asserts the foreman's writing. And bin the attribution phrase "that the shepherd had concluded" (inner attribution) — scoping to shepherd_world. And bin "He wrote that"? If p2 captures "He wrote", then binning "He wrote that" would be redundant... but the bin entry explains the scoping.

Hmm, cleaner: bin entry words: "that the shepherd had concluded" — reason: "attribution of a conclusion to the shepherd (who concludes what is outside the language); it scopes the conclusion content and its reason to shepherd_world". And keep p2 "foreman WROTE note" as said/CLAIMED. That covers "He wrote" in the ledger. Good — no double counting of "He wrote".

Similarly sentence 3: "The foreman added, from what he saw himself, that the lower field was empty of grass."
- p3: foreman ADDED entry (CLAIMED) — with `entry` thing... or "foreman ADDED to note".
- bin: "from what he saw himself" (source attribution: who saw/knows what) — and it scopes... hmm, the content is the foreman's own observation written in his own note → TOLD in note_world.

Hmm, wait. Now with p2/p3 as actual happenings, is the content TOLD in note_world or in shepherd_world? For sentence 2's content: the inner attribution sends it to shepherd_world. For sentence 3's content: "from what he saw himself" is an attribution of the source of knowledge to the foreman → per rule, "write the content as TOLD in that person's world" → TOLD in the foreman's world?! Hmm. "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world."

"from what he saw himself" is about seeing (knowing), and the "Outside the language" list includes "Who believes, knows or wants what" → bin. Hmm — two rules: (i) "Who believes, knows or wants what" → outside → bin; (ii) "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world."

Rule (ii) is in the translator's task list: attributed belief/want/conclusion content goes to that person's TOLD world. Rule (i) in the language says attributions of knowledge are outside the language and go to the bin.

For "the foreman added, from what he saw himself, that the lower field was empty of grass": the content "the lower field was empty of grass" — whose? It's the foreman's observation, recorded in the note. Since the note is the foreman's own record and the note is a "note" (a named world of its own per rule 14/39: "What a story, report, note, letter, speech or dream says is TOLD, in a named world of its own"), the content belongs to note_world.

I'll do: content TOLD in note_world, and bin "from what he saw himself" with reason: "attribution of the source of the foreman's knowledge (who knows/sees what is outside the language); the content is what the note says and is kept in note_world".

Good.

Now, hmm, one more thought on sentence 2's worlds: should the shepherd's conclusion content be in shepherd_world or note_world? Rule 39's explicit instruction → shepherd_world. But then note_world has only the lower-field fact. Hmm, and there's a subtlety: the note reports the shepherd's conclusion — but we don't record that the note reports it (it's in the bin). Fine.

Hmm, but wait: could I put the shepherd's conclusion in note_world AND note that it's the shepherd's? The rule says the content goes to that person's world. Two worlds it is. But hmm — is the shepherd's world "a story, report, note, letter, speech or dream"? No — it's a person's thinking. Rule 39 explicitly says "write the content as TOLD in that person's world" for believes/wants/concludes. OK.

So worlds: `note_world` (case_kind "told") and `shepherd_world` (case_kind "told").

Hmm, hmm — but careful with the encoding guide: `"standing": "TOLD in world <name>"`, `"case": "<name>"`, `"case_kind": "told"`. Fine.

Now, what about sentence 4: "The note ended with the time the rounds had finished."
- f_end (CLAIMED, said): "note ended" — hmm, or happening p4: note ENDED? Intransitive. Fact: "the note ended". OK.
- f_time (CLAIMED, said): "the note ended with the rounds' finish time" — hmm. Let me think about what's writable: "the note ended with the time" — the "time" is a when/number → outside. But the structure "the note's last entry is the rounds' finish time" is a fact about the note. Since the specific time is outside the language, I can write: "the note's end recorded the finish of the rounds" — hmm.

Let me write: f_end2 (CLAIMED, said): "the note ended with the finish of the rounds" — reading: "the time the rounds had finished" → "the finish of the rounds" (dropping the clock value, which is binned). Hmm, "ended with the time" means the last item was the time. "ended with the finish of the rounds" — slight rewording but captures "the note's end marks the rounds' finish". Hmm.

Alternatively bin the whole "with the time the rounds had finished" and keep only "the note ended" + the GIVEN fact "the rounds had finished". But then the connection (the note recorded the time of the finish) is lost — but it's a "when" relation → outside the language anyway! "When, beyond the order of a chain and the stage named in a fact" → the note's recording of a time is a "when" → outside → bin. And "the rounds had finished" — that's a fact (stage), keep it.

So: 
- f_end (CLAIMED, said): "note ended".
- f_rounds_done (GIVEN, said): "rounds finished [stage: before the note ended]".
- bin s4: "with the time the rounds had finished" as recorded in the note — reason: a clock time is outside the language (when/numbers); what remains is that the rounds finished, kept as f_rounds_done.

Hmm, but if I bin the whole phrase "with the time the rounds had finished", then f_rounds_done is derived from the same words — that's fine (a sentence can be in both ledger and bin). Bin entry words should be exactly the words binned: "the time" (the clock value). Let me bin "the time" with reason "a clock time is a number/when, outside the language". And keep f_end as "the note ended with the finish of the rounds" — hmm, but "ended with the time" — the "with" links the note's ending to the recorded time.

Let me write f_end's content as: "the note ended with a record of the rounds' finish" and mark it... the words say "ended with the time the rounds had finished" = "ended with [a record of] the time at which the rounds had finished". My line "the note ended with a record of the rounds' finish" keeps the structure minus the clock value. Mark "said"? The "record of" is implicit in "with the time the rounds had finished" (the note ended with [i.e., its last item was] the time). Hmm. I think "said" is fine with a reading note. Or mark "filled in" with note "the clock value is binned; the translator writes 'a record of the rounds' finish' for the remaining structure".

I'll mark it "filled in" and say which part I added ("a record of" is the translator's wording for what the note carried). Hmm. Alternatively write the fact as "the note ended with the rounds' finish" hmm.

Hmm, let me consider writing it more literally: f_end2: "the note's end was the rounds' finish time" — no. 

How about: f_end2 (CLAIMED, said): "the note ended with the finish time of the rounds" — keeping "finish time" as a name (the thing recorded). Then the bin entry: "the time" — the clock value itself (how much, when) is outside the language; the entry records only that a finish time of the rounds was the note's end. Hmm, "finish time" as a term — `holds(ended_with(note, rounds_finish_time))`. That works and is close to the words. Mark "said" (the words say it) with the value binned.

I like: f_end2: "[CLAIMED] the note ended with the finish time of the rounds" — said. Bin: "the time" → hmm, if f_end2 keeps "finish time", what exactly is binned? The actual time value (unstated in the text anyway!). Hmm — the text never gives the time; it says "the time the rounds had finished". So nothing numeric is in the text at all! So what's there to bin? The concept "time" — the recording of a time. Hmm.

Hmm: the fact "the note ended with the time the rounds had finished" — is any of it outside the language? The note's carrying a time-record is a fact about the note (writable). The specific time is not given. So maybe nothing needs binning here! The fact is: "the note ended with the rounds' finish time". Hmm, but "when" is outside the language: "When, beyond the order of a chain and the stage named in a fact." So a fact that says "the note ended with a time" is about a record, not about when something happened. I think it's writable.

But the stage: "the rounds had finished" (past perfect → finished before the note's end) — keep as a fact with stage.

So sentence 4:
- f_end (CLAIMED, said): "the note ended with the finish time of the rounds" — hmm, or split into two facts:
  - f_end: "note ended" (CLAIMED, said)
  - f_time_record: "the note's end recorded the finish time of the rounds" (CLAIMED, said)
  - f_rounds_done: "rounds finished [stage: before the note's end]" (GIVEN, said)

Hmm, f_time_record and f_end overlap. Let me do:
- f_end: "[CLAIMED] the note ended with a record of the rounds' finish time" (said) — prolog: holds(ended_with(note, rounds_finish_time)).
- f_rounds_done: "[GIVEN] rounds finished [stage: before the note's end]" (said) — prolog: holds(finished(rounds)).

And bin: "the time" — hmm. If nothing is lost... but is the recorded time a "when"? The fact that the note records a time is structural. But the language can't say *which* time — and the text doesn't either. So no bin entry needed for sentence 4? But the task's check: "Every sentence of the text appears in the ledger, in the bin, or in both." Sentence 4 is in the ledger. ✓.

Hmm, but hmm: "the time the rounds had finished" — as content of the note? Is this note content (TOLD in note_world) or actual (the narrator says the note ended with it)? The narrator asserts it → actual CLAIMED. But what the note *records* is a time... the note's content would be TOLD. Hmm! "The note ended with the time the rounds had finished." — this is the narrator describing the note's structure. The note contains a time entry. Is the time entry's content (that the rounds finished at time T) TOLD in note_world? Hmm.

Hmm, since the foreman kept the note and the rounds were his own, and the narrator asserts this... I'll treat it as actual (the narrator asserts the note's last entry was the rounds' finish time) and note in readings. Alternatively TOLD in note_world (the note records when the rounds finished). Hmm.

Hmm. Let me think: which is more faithful? The sentence is the narrator's description of the note ("The note ended with..."). Like sentence 1 ("The farm foreman kept notes..."), it's the narrator's assertion. So actual. But the *content* recorded (the time) — the note says the rounds finished at that time. Since no specific time is given and the fact "rounds finished" is presupposed (GIVEN), I'll keep it actual.

Hmm, hmm. But consistency: sentence 3's content ("the lower field was empty of grass") I put in note_world because it's what the note says (and attributed to the foreman's sight). Sentence 4's content is the narrator's structural description... which also describes note content. Hmm!

Hmm, "The note ended with the time the rounds had finished" — the note's content includes a time. What the note says: "the rounds finished at [time]". Is that TOLD? The narrator asserts that the note ended with it — which entails that the rounds finished (or that the note claims they did). Hmm.

Let me treat the recorded finish as note content: nf2 (TOLD in note_world): "the note's end records the finish of the rounds" hmm, that's about the note.

I'll do this:
- f_end (CLAIMED, said, actual): "the note ended with the finish time of the rounds" — the narrator's description of the note.
- f_rounds_done (GIVEN, said, actual): "rounds finished [stage: before the note's end]" — taken for granted by the narrator.

And a reading note: "Sentence 4: the note's last entry is described by the narrator; I keep the description in the actual ledger as the narrator's own statement, and take 'the rounds had finished' as GIVEN (a relative clause). The clock value itself is not in the text."

Hmm, and should I bin "the time" as a when? The phrase "the time" names a record; the language can't hold clock values — but none is given. I'll add a bin entry for "the time" with reason: "a clock time is a number and a 'when', outside the language; the text gives no value and the ledger keeps only that the note's end carried the rounds' finish time." That satisfies "nothing dropped silently" and flags the outside-the-language element. Good.

Now let me also double check sentence 1's bin ("evening"). ✓.

Sentence 2's bins: "that the shepherd had concluded" (attribution) and "must" (modal). Also, hmm: "must be in the top field" — "must" modal → bin. Let me bin "must" alone with reason "modal, outside the language ('may, must, should...')". And the attribution phrase "the shepherd had concluded" → bin. Hmm, but "concluded" is the attribution verb; "the shepherd had concluded" is the phrase. ✓.

Sentence 3's bin: "from what he saw himself" → bin (source attribution: who saw/knows what).

Sentence 4's bin: "the time" → bin.

Total bin entries: 5 (s1: "evening"; s2: two; s3: one; s4: one). Sentences that lost something to the bin: 4 (all).

Now words split: any? "notes"/"the note" — plural vs singular, same sense → not a split of senses; record as a reading. "kept" — one sense. "rounds" — "evening rounds"/"the rounds" — same. "left" in "left that gate open" — sense: left = allowed to remain (not "departed")! That's a possible ambiguity: "the shepherd always left that gate open" — "left" = permitted it to remain open (or caused it to be open and left it). Could be read as "departed leaving it open". Hmm, senses of "left": (a) caused/allowed to remain in an open state; (b) departed from. Actually "left that gate open" idiomatically = allowed/caused the gate to remain open. Hmm — is there a two-sense split here worth recording? "Words I split: each with both senses" — is required when the text uses one word in two senses. Here "left" is used once. Not a split. But in "Readings I chose" I could note it.

Hmm, "open" — "the gate stood open" (adjective) vs "left that gate open" (adjective) — same sense. Hmm, and "open" as a verb shape ("open a fist on") — not used.

"field" — "top field" and "lower field" — same sense. Hmm.

"added" — one sense.

"kept" — "kept notes" (maintained/wrote) — one sense.

"time" — "the time the rounds had finished" — one sense.

"notes" — "kept notes" (records) — and "The note ended" — same sense (record).

So Words I split: none. But hmm — "rounds": "evening rounds" (the foreman's patrol) and... only one sense. OK, "None".

Hmm, what about "that gate" — "that" as a demonstrative — no.

OK, Words I split: (none). But the section must be printed — with "None" or empty. I'll write "None."

Hmm, one more: "left" — I could record it as a word with two possible senses under Readings I chose (literal: permitted to remain open / departed leaving open). Hmm, "left that gate open" — both readings give roughly the same ledger content (the gate was left open by the shepherd). I'll note it in readings briefly.

Now "Readings I chose" entries:
1. Sentence 1: "kept notes" plural and "the note" singular (sentence 4) — readings: one record / several records. Chosen: one record named `note`. Hmm, that's a naming choice → good to record.
2. Sentence 1: "on his evening readings"... let me do: "on his evening rounds" — readings: a time/occasion phrase (outside the language) / a link between the keeping and the rounds. Chosen: I keep the link as fact f1 (the note was kept on the foreman's rounds) and bin "evening" as a time of day.
3. Sentence 2: "that gate" — readings: (i) the top field's gate (then driving the flock through it would put the flock in the top field), (ii) a gate whose field the text does not name. Chosen: (ii) — I write no line saying which field the gate belongs to, so the step from "driven through the gate" to "in the top field" is left open. [filled in? no lines written from it]
   Hmm — if I take reading (ii), no filled-in lines. Good.
4. Sentence 2: "the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it" — readings: (i) one direction: leaving the gate open never happens except after the flock is driven through (the "only once" reading); (ii) two directions: also, whenever the flock was driven through, he left it open. Chosen: (i), written as the ALWAYS SHOWS line sh3 in the direction the shepherd uses.
5. Sentence 2: "since A and B" — readings: (i) two reasons, each offered on its own; (ii) one reason (the gate's standing open) with the second clause as the rule that licenses it. Chosen: (ii) — one SINCE line pointing at sh2, with sh3 in the ledger as the rule.
6. Sentence 2: the general line's kind — readings: MAKES or SHOWS. Chosen: SHOWS, since the flock's being driven through precedes the shepherd's leaving the gate open, so the leaving cannot produce it; it can only be how one tells.
7. Sentence 2: "left" — readings: permitted/caused the gate to remain open / departed leaving it open. Chosen: the first (the shepherd's leaving the gate open as an act whose occasion is being restricted).
8. Sentence 3: "from what he saw himself" — readings: it makes the content a claim about the actual world on the foreman's authority / it is an attribution of the source of his knowledge. Chosen: the second — the phrase is binned as who-knows-what, and the content is kept as what the note says (TOLD in note_world).
9. Sentence 4: "the rounds had finished" is a relative clause (GIVEN) and "the note ended with the time..." is the narrator's claim (CLAIMED); the note's carrying a finish time is kept as a fact and the clock value is not in the text.
10. Spelling slips: none seen. Should I mention? "Include your readings of any slips of spelling." — if none, say none.

Also: sentence 2's "He wrote that..." object not named → reading: the note is what he wrote in (used in p2). Add as a reading.

Now the general line about... hmm, is there any other general line? No.

Now let me finalize the line list with ids and prolog.

Actual ledger:
| id | standing | content | mark | sentence |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| foreman | CLAIMED (thing) | foreman is a farm_foreman; response to a press not stated; DOER | said | 1 |
| note | CLAIMED (thing) | note is a note; response to a press not stated | said | 1 |
| rounds | CLAIMED (thing) | rounds is a rounds; response to a press not stated | said | 1 |
| p1 | CLAIMED (happening) | p1: foreman KEPT note | said | 1 |
| f1 | GIVEN (fact) | the note was kept on the foreman's rounds | said | 1 |
| p2 | CLAIMED (happening) | p2: foreman WROTE note | said | 2 |
| p3 | CLAIMED (happening) | p3: foreman ADDED entry | filled in | 3 |  (thing `entry` filled in)
| entry | CLAIMED (thing) | entry is a note entry; response to a press not stated | filled in | 3 |
| f_end | CLAIMED (fact) | the note ended with the finish time of the rounds | said | 4 |
| f_rd | GIVEN (fact) | rounds finished [stage: before the note's end] | said | 4 |

note_world (TOLD in world note_world):
| nf1 | TOLD | the lower field was empty of grass | said | 3 |
| lower_field | TOLD (thing) | lower_field is a field; response to a press not stated | said | 3 |
| grass | TOLD (thing) | grass is grass; response to a press not stated | said | 3 |

shepherd_world (TOLD in world shepherd_world):
| shepherd | TOLD (thing) | shepherd is a shepherd; response to a press not stated; DOER | said | 2 |
| flock | TOLD (thing) | flock is a flock; response to a press not stated | said | 2 |
| gate | TOLD (thing) | gate is a gate; response to a press not stated | said | 2 |
| top_field | TOLD (thing) | top_field is a field; response to a press not stated | said | 2 |
| sh1 | TOLD (fact) | flock is in the top field | said | 2 |
| sh2 | TOLD (fact) | gate stood open [stage: when the shepherd reasoned] | said | 2 |
| sh3 | TOLD (general) | ALWAYS SHOWS: when [the shepherd leaves the gate open], then [the flock has been driven through the gate]; 'only once' makes this the single permitted way | said | 2 |
| sh4 | TOLD (claim about lines) | line sh1 SINCE line sh2; line sh3 is the rule the shepherd gives with it | said | 2 |

Wait — is the general line's antecedent/consequent content requiring thing lines for their things? "the shepherd leaves the gate open" — things: shepherd, gate (have lines). "the flock has been driven through the gate" — things: flock, gate ✓.

Hmm — should the general line also have a fact line for its consequent content ("the flock has been driven through the gate")? The general line's consequent is a fact term derived by the rule. Not a separate asserted fact. But the checker's SINCE test looks for routes... fine.

Hmm, but here's a thought: the shepherd's conclusion (sh1) is "in the top field", and the unstated step is from "driven through the gate" to "in the top field". If I want the checker to report a "jump with candidate missing lines", the SINCE test needs to see the near-route. With reason gate_open(gate): the checker computes what follows: via sh3 it would need left_open_by(shepherd,gate) — not held → so nothing follows → "follows only on assumptions nobody stated" or "no connection"? Hmm. The report will name unstated assumptions. Fine.

Hmm, but maybe it'd be better for the SINCE's reason to be the pair after all... or maybe I should reconsider encoding sh3's antecedent as the gate's being open.

Let me reconsider once more the sentence: "the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it."

Hmm — what if I encode sh3 as: "ALWAYS SHOWS: when [the gate stands open], then [the flock has been driven through the gate]"? The text says "left that gate open" (his doing), which results in the gate standing open. The state "gate stands open" is the observable; the shepherd's rule is about his leaving it open. The gap between them is exactly the kind of unstated step the checker should find... but is it a gap the *writer* commits to? The writer says: the shepherd left the gate open only on occasions after driving the flock through. The evidence: the gate stood open. For the inference, one needs: the gate's open state is the shepherd's leaving it open (he's the only one who opens that gate / it stays as he left it).

Hmm, hmm. This is a genuine unstated assumption of the shepherd's reasoning. I'll leave it unstated. The checker will report it. That's the point of the exercise, I believe.

Hmm, but hmm — alternatively, a translator might reasonably read "left that gate open" as describing the gate's state ("the gate was left open [by him]") and encode the antecedent as "gate is open". Then the route works and the only gap is the second one (which field the gate leads to). Hmm.

Which is more faithful to "what the text commits its writer to"? The text says "the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it" — the restricted thing is the shepherd's act of leaving the gate open. Encoding it as a rule about the gate's state would add "the gate stands open only when..." — a stronger claim (any open state implies driven through). Hmm.

But note the "Things... Where the text is silent on how a thing answers a press, write 'not stated'" and "Happenings... Keep the push, the movement and the link between them" — for the general line, the content is the text's.

Hmm, let me consider writing sh3's antecedent as "the gate is left open by the shepherd" — `left_open_by(shepherd, gate)` — and ALSO, in the bin? No, the bin is for text words.

Hmm, what if I write the antecedent as "the gate stands open" and note in readings that the text says "the shepherd left that gate open", which the translator reads as the gate's standing open as he left it? That's a "filled in" element... rule 9: "may not let the opposite follow just as well" — the opposite (the gate was opened by someone else) could follow just as well. So it'd violate rule 9 if I made it an added line. If I write it into sh3 (a said line), I'd be misrepresenting the said content.

Decision: sh3 antecedent = "the shepherd leaves the gate open" (`left_open_by(shepherd, gate)`), faithful. The gap remains and the checker reports it. Good. And I'll note in Readings: "Sentence 2: the rule is about the shepherd's leaving the gate open; the evidence is the gate's standing open. Readings: (i) the two are the same for the ledger (the gate stands open as he left it), (ii) they are different and the link is unstated. Chosen: (ii) — no line links them, so the checker can report the step."

Hmm, "readings I chose" should record the reading I took and any lines written from it marked filled in. Chosen (ii) → no lines written. Fine.

Hmm, although... hmm. Let me reconsider — is (ii) too pedantic? A reader rebuilding "what the writer committed to" would want to see the shepherd's argument laid bare, including its gaps. Yes, (ii) is right for this exercise.

Now — the count section:
- lines said: let me count. Actual: foreman, note, rounds, p1, f1, p2, f_end, f_rd = 8 said. note_world: nf1, lower_field, grass = 3 said. shepherd_world: shepherd, flock, gate, top_field, sh1, sh2, sh3, sh4 = 8 said. Total said = 19.
- filled in: entry (thing), p3 = 2. Hmm — p3 marked filled in because "added" names no object and the translator named `entry`. Hmm, alternatively mark p3 "said" with the note "object not named" (T10D style: "window was opened; opener not named" was said). Hmm! T10D marked such a line "said" with "opener not named". By that pattern, p3 could be said: "p3: foreman ADDED entry; what was added is not named" — hmm, but then `entry` is my name for an unnamed thing... T10D named the thing `window` (named in text). Here the added object isn't named at all.

Hmm, alternatively write p3's thing as `note`: "p3: foreman ADDED to note [the lower-field statement]"...Hmm, let me reconsider: maybe I can avoid `entry` by writing p3 as a fact! Like T10D's "window was opened" fact. E.g.: f3 (CLAIMED, said): "the note carries the statement that the lower field was empty of grass"? But the content is TOLD in note_world... Hmm, the note's carrying it is actual.

Hmm. OK here's another thought: since the content of what he added is the TOLD line nf1, maybe the happening can take `note` as its thing: "p3: foreman ADDED entry to note" — needs entry. OR write the happening as "p3: foreman ADDED nf1 to note"? Lines aren't things.

Let me just do: p3: "p3: foreman ADDED entry" with thing `entry`, both marked "filled in" with the note that the text names no object for "added" and the translator names the added statement `entry`. That's transparent, rule-15 compliant. Two filled-in lines. Fine.

Hmm, but wait: also p2 "foreman WROTE note" — "wrote" names no object either ("He wrote that P"). Hmm! Same issue. So p2 should be "filled in" too, with the note that the note is the translator's pick for what was written on. Hmm, or write p2's thing as `entry` too? "He wrote that P" wrote the entry... 

Ugh. OK, symmetric solution: one thing `entry` (the written record) used for both? But they're two different writings (sentence 2's report and sentence 3's addition). Hmm, "The foreman added ... that Q" — he added a second entry.

Alternative symmetric solution: both p2 and p3 have `note` as their thing:
- p2: "p2: foreman WROTE note" — the foreman wrote in the note. Mark: filled in? or said? The text says "He wrote that P" — he wrote, and the writing is in the notes he kept. Taking `note` as the thing written on is a reading (recorded in Readings I chose), not really an added premise. Under T10D's precedent ("window was opened; opener not named" = said), an unnamed participant handled by "not named" is fine as "said". But here I'm naming the object as `note`, which is a named thing (from sentence 1). Reasonable: "He wrote" → in the note. I'd mark p2 "said" with a note "the object of 'wrote' is not named in the sentence; the note is the record he kept" — hmm, but that's exactly the case for rule 15's "say in the line which part you added" → then the whole line is "filled in".

Hmm. Rule 15: "One line, one source mark. Where part was said and part is your choice, split the line if you can. If you cannot, mark the whole line filled in and say in it which part you added."

But T10D marked "window was opened; opener not named" as said — there, nothing was added (the opener slot just says "not named"). The parallel here: "p2: foreman WROTE note; the thing written on is not named in the sentence" — hmm, but then what fills the THING slot? "not named"? A happening's shape is DOER VERB THING. If the thing is unnamed, can I write "p2: foreman WROTE [thing not named]"? Hmm — then the happening has a thing with no name and rule 3 requires thing lines for its things.

Alternative: treat "He wrote that P" as not a happening but a fact about the note: "the note carries the shepherd's report" — hmm, the attribution.

Hmm, hmm. Let me simplify radically: What if I treat sentences 2 and 3's "He wrote that X" and "The foreman added ... that Y" purely as the report frames (attributions) → bin, like T10D's "The account says"? Then:
- Bin s2: "He wrote that" — attribution: the note records the following; scopes the content. And the inner "the shepherd had concluded" → bin too (scoping to shepherd_world).
- Bin s3: "The foreman added, from what he saw himself," — attribution + source; scopes the content to note_world.

And the actual ledger would have only things (foreman, note, rounds) and facts (f1, f_end, f_rd) plus p1 ("foreman kept notes" — hmm, that's also an action...).

Hmm, but then we lose "the foreman wrote/added" as commitments. Are those commitments? The narrator asserts the foreman wrote and added. That's part of "what the text commits its writer to". So they should be in the ledger.

Hmm, but in T10D, "The account says opening the window caused the letter to stay dry" — the account's saying-so was binned entirely, and the ledger only had the TOLD content + the account thing (GIVEN). There, "the account says" is not an action with a doer-object structure; it's a frame. Here "He wrote" is an action verb with a doer.

I think keeping the writings as happenings is right, and handling unnamed objects by naming them from context (`note`) with a note in the line. Let me look at rule 39's rule for source marks again: "Mark what the writer wrote as 'said'. Mark every line you add as 'filled in' (your reading, or a missing step) or 'usual case'". — "filled in (your reading, or a missing step)". So a reading-based line = filled in. Hmm! So if the object-pick is "my reading", the line is filled in.

But T10D marked "window was opened; opener not named" as said — no reading was made there (the opener slot is explicitly unfilled). The analogous move here: write the happening with the object slot explicitly unfilled... but the shape requires a THING.

Hmm! What about writing p2 as: "p2: foreman WROTE [thing not named]"? And rule 3 (every thing in a happening must have a thing line) — if the thing is unnamed, there's no thing to name... but rule 3 says a happening whose things have no lines is incomplete. Hmm. Unless I name it `written_matter`... 

OK, pragmatic decision: I'll use `entry` as a thing for both writings and mark the lines "filled in" where the object is my pick:
- p2: "p2: foreman WROTE entry" — filled in — "the sentence names no object for 'wrote'; the translator names the written entry `entry`".- entry: thing line — filled in — "entry is a note entry; response to a press not stated; the text names no object of writing; the translator names it `entry`".
- p3: "p3: foreman ADDED entry" — hmm, same `entry`? Two acts on one entry? Sentence 2 wrote [the report], sentence 3 added [the statement]. If both are `entry`, they'd be one thing.

Let me use two: `report` (what he wrote in sentence 2) and `addition` (what he added in sentence 3). Hmm. Or `first_entry`/`second_entry`. Hmm, names: `shepherd_report` and `field_record`? Plain lower-case words with underscores fine.

Hmm, hmm. Actually — maybe simpler: the thing of "wrote"/"added" can be `note` for both, since both acts put content into the note:
- p2: "p2: foreman WROTE note" (filled in: the sentence names no object; the translator takes the note as what he wrote in)
- p3: "p3: foreman ADDED to note" hmm, shape...

Or p3: "p3: foreman ADDED note" hmm no.

What about treating "added" with the note as a "toward" direction? "p3: foreman ADDED entry toward note"? No.

Hmm, what if p3's thing is `note` and the verb phrase is "ADDED TO": "p3: foreman ADDED TO note" — the shape "DOER VERB THING" with verb "add to". That works: "p3: foreman ADDED TO note" — doer foreman, verb "added to", thing note. Hmm, "using the text's own verb" = "added". "added to the note" — hmm, the text says "The foreman added, from what he saw himself, that Q" — no "to the note" (it's implied).

Alternatively, the thing added IS the content, and content is expressed as TOLD lines... The happening could be: "p3: foreman ADDED [content nf1]"? Hmm, "lines point at lines by number".

You know what? Let me use this: p3: "p3: foreman ADDED entry to note" with `entry` one thing line (filled in), covering the added statement (sentence 3). And p2: "p2: foreman WROTE entry" — hmm, that's the same entry...

FINE. Two things: `written_entry` (s2) and `added_entry` (s3). Hmm, clunky but clear. Hmm, or `report_entry` and `sight_entry`. Hmm.

Hmm, hmm — actually, maybe cleaner: since "He wrote that P" and "The foreman added that Q" are both about putting content into the note, maybe ONE happening per sentence with the note as the thing and the verb as text's ("wrote", "added"), and the missing object noted in the line text as "the object of writing is not named; the note is the record". Mark: filled in with the added part named. Two lines: p2, p3 both filled in. And `note`'s thing line is already there (said). No new things! That's much cleaner.

p2: "[CLAIMED] p2: foreman WROTE note — the sentence names no object for 'wrote'; the translator takes the note (the record of sentence 1) as what he wrote in" — filled in.
p3: "[CLAIMED] p3: foreman ADDED to note — the sentence names no object for 'added'; the translator takes the note as what he added to" — filled in. Hmm, "ADDED to note" vs shape "DOER VERB THING" — verb "added to", thing "note". OK.

Hmm, is that acceptable? I think yes. Two filled-in lines, transparent.

Hmm, but hold on: could I instead just mark them "said" and put the object-pick in Readings I chose? The rule says "filled in (your reading, or a missing step)". The object-pick IS my reading. So "filled in" with a note in the line. And also in Readings. OK, going with filled in. Hmm... but then the checker's "added lines" test might flag "added lines alone give the conclusion" — no, p2/p3 aren't premises for any conclusion. Fine.

So filled-in lines: p2, p3 = 2. Said lines = 19 (as counted) minus... let me recount:

Actual ledger lines:
1. foreman (thing) — said
2. note (thing) — said
3. rounds (thing) — said
4. p1 (happening: foreman KEPT note) — said
5. f1 (fact: note kept on the foreman's rounds) — said
6. p2 (happening: foreman WROTE note) — filled in
7. p3 (happening: foreman ADDED to note) — filled in
8. f_end (fact: note ended with the finish time of the rounds) — said
9. f_rd (GIVEN fact: rounds finished [stage: before the note's end]) — said

note_world:
10. lower_field (thing) — said
11. grass (thing) — said
12. nf1 (fact: lower field was empty of grass) — said

shepherd_world:
13. shepherd (thing) — said
14. flock (thing) — said
15. gate (thing) — said
16. top_field (thing) — said
17. sh1 (fact: flock is in the top field) — said
18. sh2 (fact: gate stood open [stage: when the shepherd reasoned]) — said
19. sh3 (general ALWAYS SHOWS) — said
20. sh4 (SINCE claim) — said

Counts: said = 18, filled in = 2, usual case = 0. Total20 lines.

Hmm — is f1 "said"? "on his evening rounds" — the link is said; "evening" binned. Yes said.

Is f_rd "said"? "the rounds had finished" — said (GIVEN). Yes.

Now, one more consideration on `p1: foreman KEPT note` — "kept notes" plural. My reading (one record) → note. Recorded in readings. Mark said (the keeping is said; the singular/plural is a naming choice). Hmm, rule 15... the naming choice is in "Words I split"/"Readings". I'll mark said and record the reading. Fine. Hmm, or should it be "filled in"? The name `note` for "notes"... T10D named things from text words. Here "notes" → `note`. Minor. I'll keep "said" and record the reading.

Now, Prolog clauses. Let me write them.

Things:
- foreman: `kind(foreman, farm_foreman) :- line(foreman).` and `body(foreman, not_stated) :- line(foreman).`
- note: `kind(note, note) :- line(note).`, `body(note, not_stated) :- line(note).`
- rounds: `kind(rounds, rounds) :- line(rounds).`, `body(rounds, not_stated) :- line(rounds).`
- lower_field: `kind(lower_field, field) :- line(lower_field).`, `body(lower_field, not_stated) :- line(lower_field).`
- grass: `kind(grass, grass) :- line(grass).`, `body(grass, not_stated) :- line(grass).`
- shepherd: `kind(shepherd, shepherd) :- line(shepherd).`, `body(shepherd, not_stated) :- line(shepherd).`
- flock: `kind(flock, flock) :- line(flock).`, `body(flock, not_stated) :- line(flock).`
- gate: `kind(gate, gate) :- line(gate).`, `body(gate, not_stated) :- line(gate).`
- top_field: `kind(top_field, field) :- line(top_field).`, `body(top_field, not_stated) :- line(top_field).`

Hmm — the response class: the guide's thing line says "it answers a press as one of the six response classes" and the prolog form `body(<thing>, not_stated) :- line(id).` "(the response to a press, when not stated)". So when stated, presumably `body(<thing>, <class>)`. All ours are not_stated. OK.

Hmm, but wait — should the foreman and shepherd really be "not stated"? Rule 3: "If the text does not say how it answers a press, write 'not stated'." The text doesn't. OK. But hmm, the fixed list says "heavy and standing (a person)" — it's an example gloss. I'll write "not stated" and add a reading note: "the text names occupations of persons; the response class list's gloss for a person is 'heavy and standing', but the text states no press response, so I wrote 'not stated' per rule 3." Hmm, that's a bit odd but rule-following. Hmm.

Hmm, alternatively mark those thing lines filled in with the class "heavy and standing"? Rule 3 explicitly says "A class you guess is a filled-in line." Hmm — that suggests the translator may guess a class if marked filled in. But it also says "If the text does not say how it answers a press, write 'not stated'." These two sentences: first "If the text does not say how it answers a press, write 'not stated'." then "A class you guess is a filled-in line." — the second implies that if you do guess (e.g., from the kind's obviousness), mark it filled in. Hmm, contradictory-ish. The safest is "not stated". But is "heavy and standing" for a foreman a "guess"? The language's own list says a person is heavy and standing. Since I classify foreman as kind `farm_foreman`... hmm, if I classify him as kind `person`, then the class follows from the list's gloss. Hmm!

Let me do this: `kind(foreman, person)` and `body(foreman, heavy_and_standing)` — marked "filled in" with a note? Hmm. Or `kind(foreman, person)` (the text's "farm foreman" is a person) and `body(foreman, not_stated)`.

Hmm. Decision: I'll use "not stated" for everything, with a reading note explaining that occupations denote persons and the list's gloss would give "heavy and standing", but the text states no press response, so rule 3's "not stated" applies. This is the most literal rule-following and avoids guessed classes. Hmm, but it loses the person-ness... I'll set kind to `person` for foreman and shepherd (that's plainly what the words denote — "foreman"/"shepherd" are human occupations; the kind name "person"... hmm, kind should be the text's word).

Hmm: "NAME is a KIND" — the kind is a plain name. For the foreman: `kind(foreman, foreman)`? or `kind(foreman, person)`? Example A: `kind(balcony_plants, tomato_plant)` — the kind is the text's noun ("tomato plants" → tomato_plant). T10D: `kind(window, window)`. So the kind is the text's noun. Text: "farm foreman" → kind `farm_foreman`? or `foreman`. Let me use `kind(foreman, farm_foreman)` hmm. Simpler: `kind(foreman, foreman)` and `kind(shepherd, shepherd)`.

Hmm, but then nothing records they're persons. Meh — the text's words are the names. Fine. Actually, let me use `kind(foreman, person)`... hmm.

Let me look at what matters for the checker: "The kind is checked wherever another line speaks about that kind." Nothing here speaks about kinds. So it doesn't matter. I'll use the text's nouns: `kind(foreman, farm_foreman)`, `kind(shepherd, shepherd)`, `kind(note, note)`, `kind(rounds, rounds)`, `kind(gate, gate)`, `kind(top_field, field)`, `kind(lower_field, field)`, `kind(grass, grass)`, `kind(flock, flock)`.

Hmm, "top_field is a field" — kind `field` from the text ("top field"). ✓

Facts:
- f1: `holds(kept_on(note, rounds)) :- line(f1).` Hmm, content "the note was kept on the foreman's rounds" → `holds(kept_on(note, foreman_rounds))`? Let me use `holds(note_kept_on_rounds(note, rounds))`? Simpler: `holds(kept_on(note, rounds)) :- line(f1).` Hmm, I want it to read clearly. Let me use `holds(kept_on(note, rounds))`. Fine. Hmm, or `holds(part_of(p1, rounds))`. Keep `kept_on(note, rounds)`.

- f_end: `holds(ended_with(note, rounds_finish_time)) :- line(f_end).`
- f_rd: `holds(finished(rounds)) :- line(f_rd).`
- nf1: `holds(empty_of_grass(lower_field)) :- line(nf1).` — content "the lower field was empty of grass" → `empty_of_grass(lower_field)`. ✓
- sh1: `holds(in(flock, top_field)) :- line(sh1).`
- sh2: `holds(gate_open(gate)) :- line(sh2).`
- sh3 (ALWAYS SHOWS): `holds(driven_through(flock, gate)) :- line(sh3), holds(left_open_by(shepherd, gate)).`
- sh4: `claim_since(sh4, in(flock, top_field), gate_open(gate)) :- line(sh4).`
- p1, p2, p3 (happenings with unchecked verbs): what clauses? The guide has no happening predicate... Hmm! "A happening: NAME: DOER VERB THING [DIRECTION]" — the checker "Checked through the verb's shape. A verb missing from the shape book is reported 'not checked' and counted". What Prolog clause represents a happening? The guide's list doesn't have one explicitly. Hmm. Maybe `holds(kept(foreman, note)) :- line(p1).` — as a fact. That seems the practical way (the checker checks facts). Since the verbs have no shape, the physical checking is "not checked" anyway.

Hmm, but the guide says "Use only these predicates (the checker asks about exactly these)". The listed predicates: kind, body, holds, denied, produced, depends, exception, exempt, claim_because, denied_because, claim_since, claim_plan, changes, claim_like, line. So a happening must be expressed via `holds(...)` (or produced/depends for results). So: `holds(kept(foreman, note)) :- line(p1).` etc. Good.

So:
- p1: `holds(kept(foreman, note)) :- line(p1).`
- p2: `holds(wrote(foreman, note)) :- line(p2).`
- p3: `holds(added_to(foreman, note)) :- line(p3).`

Hmm, "added to" → `added_to(foreman, note)`. OK.

Also: should I record the verbs without shapes somewhere? The report lists "the verbs with no shape" — that's the checker's report. But example_T10D's JSON had a "translation_gauge" with "verbs_without_shape". Hmm, the encoding guide's schema doesn't include "translation_gauge", but T10D has extra fields ("corpus_question", "names", "translation_gauge", "author_note", "status"). The guide says "Every field below is required unless marked optional" and lists paragraph, whose, sentences, bin, leftover, whatifs, lines, words_split, readings_chosen. Extra fields seem tolerated (T10D has them). I'll add a small "translation_gauge"-ish note? Hmm — 39's section 5 "The count" covers counts in the printed output. The JSON doesn't require counts. But the guide's list of what the report carries includes "the count of lines said, filled in and usual case; the verbs with no shape; and the bin" — that's the checker's report. Hmm.

I'll include a "verbs_without_shape" extra field? Risky? The guide says nothing forbids extra fields (T10D has them). But "Nothing else goes in that block" — "print the ledger once more as ONE JSON object inside a fenced code block... Nothing else goes in that block." Means no prose inside the block, just the JSON. Extra JSON fields... The example T10D has extra fields. I'll keep close to the schema but include the minimal extras? Let me include exactly the schema fields to be safe, plus maybe "names"? Hmm, T10D had "names". The schema doesn't list it. I'll stick to the listed fields only: paragraph, whose, sentences, bin, leftover, whatifs, lines, words_split, readings_chosen. Safer.

Hmm, but the whatifs field: no what-ifs in this text → empty array. ✓

Now "whose": "<your name, the model you are>, under L82". I'm Claude (Anthropic's Claude). So "Claude (Anthropic), under L82"? The examples: "Astra Ultra, under L72, from the other model's corpus", "OpenAI Codex, under L66 (example for L82)". So: "Claude (Anthropic), under L82". Let me write "Claude (Anthropic Sonnet), under L82"? I'll write "Claude, by Anthropic, under L82". Fine.

"paragraph": "<the text's id>" → "B01".

"sentences": verbatim sentences.

Let me write the sentences verbatim:
1: "The farm foreman kept notes on his evening rounds."
2: "He wrote that the shepherd had concluded the flock must be in the top field, since the gate stood open, and the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it."
3: "The foreman added, from what he saw himself, that the lower field was empty of grass."
4: "The note ended with the time the rounds had finished."

Bin entries (JSON): {"sentence": N, "words": "...", "reason": "..."}
1. s1: words "evening", reason: "Time of day of the rounds; the language has no form for when, beyond a stage named in a fact, so the timing word goes here."
2. s2: words "that the shepherd had concluded", reason: "Attribution of a conclusion to the shepherd; who concludes what is outside the language. It scopes the conclusion content and its reason to the told world shepherd_world."
3. s2: words "must", reason: "Modal of necessity; 'may, must, should, can' are outside the language."
4. s3: words "from what he saw himself", reason: "Attribution of the source of the foreman's knowledge; who sees or knows what is outside the language. The content is what the note says and is kept in note_world."
5. s4: words "the time", reason: "A clock time is a number and a 'when', outside the language. The text gives no value; the ledger keeps only that the note's end carried the rounds' finish time."

Hmm, for #5: the words binned "the time" — from the phrase "with the time the rounds had finished". The rest of the phrase is used in f_end and f_rd. OK.

Hmm, is there anything else outside the language? "on his evening rounds" — the "on" (occasion) is in f1. OK. "only once" — the "only" I encoded in sh3's note. Hmm — "once" (temporal) → the order is recorded by the rule (driven through precedes leaving open). Fine.

"leftover": one string per bin entry: 'Sentence N: <words> — <reason>'. ✓

Now the printed output sections:

**1. The ledger** — table: Number | Standing | Content | Source mark | Sentence.

Number = the id. Standing = CLAIMED/GIVEN/TOLD in world X. Content = the line. Source mark = said/filled in/usual case. Sentence = number.

Let me write the content with the standing bracket prefix as in examples? In the JSON "text" field, examples write "[CLAIMED] ..." or "[TOLD in world account_world] ...". In the table's Content column, the Standing column already gives standing. In the examples' JSON the text includes the standing prefix. I'll include the prefix in the JSON text (as examples do) and in the table's Content column write the content plainly... Hmm, the table has a Standing column separately. Let me write the table Content without the bracket prefix (since Standing is its own column) but the JSON text with the prefix (as the schema/examples show: `"text": "[<standing>] <the line in the language's words>"`). The schema explicitly says text = "[<standing>] <the line in the language's words>". ✓. And the table's Content: I'll write the same line words without prefix. Hmm, but final check 1: "Every line in the table has an entry in lines with the same id, mark, standing and sentence." — only id, mark, standing, sentence must match, not text. OK.

Hmm, to be safe and consistent, I'll write the Content column with the standing bracket too? That'd duplicate the Standing column. I'll write content without the bracket. Fine.

Now let me draft each line's content text.

1. `foreman` | CLAIMED | foreman is a farm_foreman; response to a press not stated; DOER | said | 1
2. `note` | CLAIMED | note is a note; response to a press not stated | said | 1
3. `rounds` | CLAIMED | rounds is a rounds; response to a press not stated | said | 1
4. `p1` | CLAIMED | p1: foreman KEPT note | said | 1
5. `f1` | GIVEN | the note was kept on the foreman's rounds | said | 1
6. `p2` | CLAIMED | p2: foreman WROTE note; the sentence names no object of writing, the translator takes the note as what he wrote in | filled in | 2
7. `p3` | CLAIMED | p3: foreman ADDED TO note; the sentence names no object of adding, the translator takes the note as what he added to | filled in | 3
8. `f_end` | CLAIMED | the note ended with the finish time of the rounds | said | 4
9. `f_rd` | GIVEN | rounds finished [stage: before the note's end] | said | 4
10. `lower_field` | TOLD in world note_world | lower_field is a field; response to a press not stated | said | 3
11. `grass` | TOLD in world note_world | grass is grass; response to a press not stated | said | 3
12. `nf1` | TOLD in world note_world | the lower field was empty of grass | said | 3
13. `shepherd` | TOLD in world shepherd_world | shepherd is a shepherd; response to a press not stated; DOER | said | 2
14. `flock` | TOLD in world shepherd_world | flock is a flock; response to a press not stated | said | 2
15. `gate` | TOLD in world shepherd_world | gate is a gate; response to a press not stated | said | 2
16. `top_field` | TOLD in world shepherd_world | top_field is a field; response to a press not stated | said | 2
17. `sh1` | TOLD in world shepherd_world | flock is in the top field | said | 2
18. `sh2` | TOLD in world shepherd_world | gate stood open [stage: when the shepherd reasoned] | said | 2
19. `sh3` | TOLD in world shepherd_world | ALWAYS SHOWS: when [the shepherd leaves the gate open], then [the flock has been driven through the gate]; the words "only once" make this the single permitted way | said | 2
20. `sh4` | TOLD in world shepherd_world | line sh1 SINCE line sh2; line sh3 is the rule the shepherd gives with it | said | 2

Hmm — one issue: are the told-world thing lines' "Sentence" numbers right? They all come from sentence 2 (shepherd_world) and sentence 3 (note_world). ✓

Wait — the note_world things (lower_field, grass) come from sentence 3. ✓

Hmm — should `note_world` contain anything else? The note also "ended with the time..." — but that's the narrator's description (actual). And the report of the shepherd's conclusion is binned. OK.

Hmm — now, a concern: is it right to keep the shepherd's conclusion in a separate world from the note? Let me double check the rule once more: "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." Yes. ✓

But hmm, there's a subtlety: the SINCE reasoning is the shepherd's; putting it in shepherd_world means the checker tests the SINCE inside shepherd_world on the world's own lines. Per the told-world rules: "Every check the checker makes of commitments is asked inside the world, on the world's own lines: contradiction, BECAUSE, SINCE, the chain, ...". ✓ Good — the SINCE check runs inside shepherd_world, which contains sh1–sh4 and the things. 

Now, the standing within shepherd_world: all "TOLD in world shepherd_world". ✓

Hmm — one thing: within shepherd_world, should sh1 (the conclusion) be distinguished from the premises? In the language there's only TOLD standing for told worlds. Fine.

Now, the JSON "text" fields need "[<standing>] ..." prefix: e.g. "[TOLD in world shepherd_world] flock is in the top field".

Prolog clauses — for TOLD lines, "TOLD or SUPPOSED line uses the same clauses; its case and case_kind fields tell the checker which world it belongs to." ✓

Let me write all prolog clauses:

foreman:
```
kind(foreman, farm_foreman) :- line(foreman).
body(foreman, not_stated) :- line(foreman).
```
note:
```
kind(note, note) :- line(note).
body(note, not_stated) :- line(note).
```
rounds:
```
kind(rounds, rounds) :- line(rounds).
body(rounds, not_stated) :- line(rounds).
```
p1:
```
holds(kept(foreman, note)) :- line(p1).
```
f1:
```
holds(kept_on(note, rounds)) :- line(f1).
```
p2:
```
holds(wrote(foreman, note)) :- line(p2).
```
p3:
```
holds(added_to(foreman, note)) :- line(p3).
```
f_end:
```
holds(ended_with(note, rounds_finish_time)) :- line(f_end).
```
f_rd:
```
holds(finished(rounds)) :- line(f_rd).
```
lower_field:
```
kind(lower_field, field) :- line(lower_field).
body(lower_field, not_stated) :- line(lower_field).
```
grass:
```
kind(grass, grass) :- line(grass).
body(grass, not_stated) :- line(grass).
```
nf1:
```
holds(empty_of_grass(lower_field)) :- line(nf1).
```
shepherd:
```
kind(shepherd, shepherd) :- line(shepherd).
body(shepherd, not_stated) :- line(shepherd).
```
flock:
```
kind(flock, flock) :- line(flock).
body(flock, not_stated) :- line(flock).
```
gate:
```
kind(gate, gate) :- line(gate).
body(gate, not_stated) :- line(gate).
```
top_field:
```
kind(top_field, field) :- line(top_field).
body(top_field, not_stated) :- line(top_field).
```
sh1:
```
holds(in(flock, top_field)) :- line(sh1).
```
sh2:
```
holds(gate_open(gate)) :- line(sh2).
```
sh3:
```
holds(driven_through(flock, gate)) :- line(sh3), holds(left_open_by(shepherd, gate)).
```
sh4:
```
claim_since(sh4, in(flock, top_field), gate_open(gate)) :- line(sh4).
```

Check 3: sh4's terms: `in(flock, top_field)` matches sh1's `holds(in(flock, top_field))` ✓; `gate_open(gate)` matches sh2's `holds(gate_open(gate))` ✓.

Hmm — one thought about sh3: since it's a general line of the SHOWS kind, the guide says: "A general line, ALWAYS, of the SHOWS kind: `holds(<conclusion>(X)) :- line(id), <goals>.`" — conclusion "driven_through(flock, gate)" has two args, not (X). Fine — the shape is indicative.

Hmm, should the conclusion be parameterized? `holds(driven_through(F, G)) :- line(sh3), kind(F, flock), kind(G, gate), holds(left_open_by(shepherd, G)).` Hmm — the text says "that gate" and "the flock" (specific). Specific is faithful. Keep specific.

Now, also the "line(<id>)." facts! The guide: "A what-if line has no clause; it is the `line(id).` fact and an entry in whatifs." And example_A.pl has `line(1). line(2). ...` facts. Hmm — do I need `line(id).` facts in the prolog_clauses? In example_A.pl they're at the top. In example_T10D.json, each line's prolog_clauses contain only the derived clauses (with `:- line(id)` in the body), no `line(id).` facts. Hmm — "Every clause of a line has `line(<id>)` as its first body goal, so the line can be taken out." And the driver presumably asserts line(id) facts. In example_A.pl, `line(1).` facts are present. Hmm.

The encoding guide says prolog_clauses are "one or more Prolog clauses, each ending with a full stop" and "Every clause of a line has line(<id>) as its first body goal". It doesn't say to include `line(id).` facts. T10D doesn't. But then how is the line "taken out"? The driver builds the file and adds line(id) facts presumably. Hmm, but example_A.pl includes them...

Hmm. To be safe, should I include `line(<id>).` as the first clause of each line's prolog_clauses? That would define the fact. But T10D (the model for the encoding guide's "three complete examples" — "Match their shapes") does NOT include them. Hmm, but example_A.pl does. Since the JSON examples are what I match for JSON shape, and T10D omits line(id). facts, I'll omit them... Hmm, but if the driver doesn't add them, nothing derives.

Hmm. The guide: "Every clause of a line has line(<id>) as its first body goal, so the line can be taken out." — implies the line(id) facts exist somewhere (the driver adds "One 'line(N).' per ledger line, so a line can be taken out" as example_A.pl's comment says). The comment in example_A.pl: "% ledger_A.pl - the tomato paragraph as a ledger. One "line(N)." per ledger line, so a line can be taken out." — so the file includes them.

Risk: if I omit and the driver doesn't add, nothing works. If I include and the driver also adds, duplicates (harmless in Prolog — duplicate facts are fine).

Hmm, but "Nothing else goes in that block" refers to the JSON being only JSON. Including `line(<id>).` in prolog_clauses is still valid JSON.

Hmm, but the check "Every prolog_clauses entry ends with a full stop and has line(<its own id>) as its first body goal" — `line(sh1).` has NO body (it's a fact), so it wouldn't have `line(sh1)` as its first body goal. That check suggests prolog_clauses entries are all rules with bodies. So the line(id). facts are NOT in prolog_clauses. Good — omit them (matching T10D).

OK. Now also: what about the `depends` clauses? Only for ALWAYS MAKES general lines and plans. None here. ✓

Now what about "Result" lines (kind 5)? None — no movements. ✓

What about the driving of the flock (a happening with a movement)? It appears only inside sh3's consequent. Hmm — rule: "Happenings. Write who did what to what, and which way, using the text's own verb." The text's clause "the flock had been driven through it" — inside the general line. Should I add a happening line for it (p4: [doer not stated] DROVE flock through gate) with a Result line (flock MOVES ... as a result of p4)? It's not asserted as having happened (it's the consequent of a rule). Hmm — but the shepherd's conclusion implies he thinks it happened. Still, not asserted.

However — hmm, consider: for the checker to test the SINCE route, having `driven_through(flock, gate)` as a derivable fact (from sh3) is enough. But to connect "driven through the gate" to "in the top field" there'd need to be a rule — which is missing (the gap). Fine.

But hold on — is there an argument that the general line's consequent content should also be written as its own line (a fact) so that the ledger records the content? The general line records it as the consequent. That's enough.

Hmm, but what about "the flock had been driven through it" — as words in the text — is it in the ledger? Yes, inside sh3's content. ✓ (Sentence 2 appears in the ledger via sh1–sh4 and things; and in the bin via the attribution and "must". ✓)

Now, the "Things. Give every thing in a happening a thing line." — the happenings are p1 (foreman, note ✓), p2 (foreman, note ✓), p3 (foreman, note ✓). ✓ All have thing lines.Now — "Where the text is silent on how a thing answers a press, write 'not stated'" ✓ all.

Let me now write "Words I split": None. Hmm, should I consider "left"? "the shepherd always left that gate open" — hmm, "left" (past of leave) — one word, one sense here (allowed to remain). Not split across two senses in the text. But "notes"/"note"... same sense. I'll say None and note in readings the near-ambiguity of "left".

Hmm — what about "rounds"? "his evening rounds" and "the rounds had finished" — same sense. ✓

"open" — "the gate stood open" / "left that gate open" — same sense (state). ✓

"field" — "top field" / "lower field" — same sense. ✓

"added" — "The foreman added" — one sense (added to the record). Could also be "added [the remark]" — same.

So: "Words I split: None."

**Readings I chose** — entries with sentence, readings open, the one taken. Let me write them:

1. Sentence 1: "kept notes" (plural) and "the note" (sentence 4). Readings: one record kept over the rounds / several records. Taken: one record, named `note`; the singular in sentence 4 is read as the same record.

2. Sentence 1: "on his evening rounds". Readings: (i) a pure occasion-and-time phrase, all of it outside the language; (ii) also a link between the keeping and the rounds, which the language can hold as a fact. Taken: (ii) — line f1 keeps the link (said), and only "evening" is binned as a time of day.

3. Sentence 2: "He wrote that ...". Readings: (i) the writing is the note's frame and is binned as an attribution; (ii) the writing is a doing the narrator asserts. Taken: (ii) — p2 keeps the doing (marked filled in because the sentence names no object of writing; the note is my pick), and the attribution "that the shepherd had concluded" is binned.

4. Sentence 2: "the shepherd had concluded". Readings: (i) the note's content is the shepherd's conclusion as a whole; (ii) the conclusion is the shepherd's, so it goes to his own world. Taken: (ii) per the rule on attributed conclusions; sh1–sh4 are TOLD in shepherd_world.

5. Sentence 2: "must be in the top field". Readings: (i) "must" is a modal of necessity and is dropped; (ii) "must" marks the conclusion as forced by the reason and is kept as part of the SINCE. Taken: (i) — "must" is binned as a modal; sh1 is the plain fact "the flock is in the top field", and the force of the reason is what sh4 records.

6. Sentence 2: "that gate". Readings: (i) the top field's gate, so that driving the flock through it would put the flock in the top field; (ii) a gate whose field the text never names. Taken: (ii) — I write no line saying which field the gate belongs to and no line from "driven through the gate" to "in the top field"; rule 9 forbids an added line whose opposite could follow just as well.

7. Sentence 2: "the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it". Readings: (i) one direction — the shepherd's leaving the gate open never happens except after the flock has been driven through ("only once"); (ii) two directions — also, whenever he drove the flock through, he left the gate open. Taken: (i), written as sh3 in the direction the shepherd uses.

8. Sentence 2: the general line's kind. Readings: MAKES or SHOWS. Taken: SHOWS — the flock's being driven through comes before the shepherd's leaving the gate open, so the leaving cannot produce it; it can only be how one tells. The words "always" settle ALWAYS; both picks are settled by the sentence's wording, so sh3 keeps the mark said.

9. Sentence 2: "left that gate open". Readings: (i) caused or allowed the gate to remain open; (ii) departed, leaving the gate open behind him. Taken: (i) — both readings put the gate in the shepherd's hands as the one who left it open, and (i) is the ordinary one.

10. Sentence 2: "since the gate stood open, and the shepherd always left that gate open only once ...". Readings: (i) two reasons, each offered on its own; (ii) one reason (the gate's standing open) with the second clause as the rule that licenses the step. Taken: (ii) — sh4 is one SINCE line pointing at sh2, with sh3 kept in the ledger as the rule the checker can use by any route.

11. Sentence 2: the gap between "the gate stood open" (sh2) and "the shepherd leaves the gate open" (sh3's condition). Readings: (i) they are the same for the ledger (the gate stands open as he left it); (ii) they are different and the link is unstated. Taken: (ii) — no line links them, so the checker can report the step as unstated.

12. Sentence 3: "from what he saw himself". Readings: (i) it makes the content a claim about the actual world on the foreman's own authority; (ii) it is an attribution of where the foreman's knowledge came from. Taken: (ii) — the phrase is binned as who-knows-what, and the content is kept as what the note says (TOLD in note_world).

13. Sentence 3: "added". Readings: (i) the object of adding is the statement, which I must name; (ii) the doing can be written with the note as what he added to. Taken: (ii) — p3 is "foreman ADDED TO note", marked filled in because the sentence names no object.

14. Sentence 4: "the note ended with the time the rounds had finished". Readings: (i) the whole phrase is the note's content, TOLD in note_world; (ii) the narrator's own description of the note's last entry, with "the rounds had finished" as a relative clause he takes for granted. Taken: (ii) — f_end is CLAIMED and f_rd is GIVEN; the clock value "the time" is binned.

15. Spelling: no slips of spelling found; nothing to record.

Hmm, #15 — "Include your readings of any slips of spelling." I'll include one line: "No spelling slips found in the text." Hmm, it should be in the form "the sentence, the readings open to me, the one I took". I'll phrase: "Spelling slips: none found; nothing open, nothing taken." Fine.

**3. Words I split** — "None."

**5. The count:**- lines said: 18
- lines filled in: 2
- lines usual case: 0
- sentences that lost something to the bin: 4 (sentences 1, 2, 3, 4)

Let me double check the said count: lines1-5 (foreman, note, rounds, p1, f1) = 5 said; 6,7 filled in; 8,9 said (f_end, f_rd) = 2 →7 said actual; note_world: 3 said (lower_field, grass, nf1) → 10; shepherd_world: 8 said → 18. ✓ Total lines 20.

Now **PARKED** list: "Judgements about whether the writer's reasoning is good, and ideas for procedures, graphs, algorithms or scoring, go in a PARKED list at the very end, one line each."

Any? Possible parked lines:
- "The shepherd's reason leaves two steps unstated: that the gate's standing open is his leaving it open, and that driving the flock through the gate puts the flock in the top field." — is this a judgement about the writer's reasoning? Yes, a mild one. Park it.
- "The foreman's note gives a reason (the empty lower field) that nothing in the note uses." — judgement. Hmm, maybe.
- "Idea: a report could list, per SINCE claim, the shortest route the ledger supports and where it stops." — a procedure idea. Park.

I'll add 2-3 parked lines.

Hmm, careful: PARKED is "at the very end" — after the closing line? "Close with: TRANSLATION COMPLETE. Then wait." and "The parking place ... go in a PARKED list at the very end, one line each." Hmm — conflict: 39 says close with TRANSLATION COMPLETE; the parking place says the PARKED list goes "at the very end". And the encoding guide says "Your printed output has the five sections 39 asks for. After them, print the ledger once more as ONE JSON block". So order: five sections → TRANSLATION COMPLETE?? → JSON → "the words TRANSLATION COMPLETE"?? The user's instruction: "print exactly what the task and the guide ask for, ending with the JSON block and then the words TRANSLATION COMPLETE." So: five sections (+PARKED at the end of the printed output?), then JSON block, then TRANSLATION COMPLETE.

Hmm: "ending with the JSON block and then the words TRANSLATION COMPLETE" — so JSON block then TRANSLATION COMPLETE at the very end. And PARKED "at the very end" of the translation work — I'll put PARKED after section 5 and before the JSON block. That respects "at the very end" of the translator's prose output while the user's instruction puts JSON then TRANSLATION COMPLETE last.

Order:
1. The ledger (table)
2. The bin (list)
3. Words I split
4. Readings I chose
5. The count
PARKED
```json ... ```
TRANSLATION COMPLETE

Hmm, but 39 says "Close with: TRANSLATION COMPLETE." after the five sections, and the guide says after the five sections print the JSON. The user's instruction resolves it: JSON block then TRANSLATION COMPLETE. ✓

Now let me double check the ledger table content strings and make sure every sentence appears in ledger or bin: s1 (p1, f1, things + bin "evening") ✓; s2 (p2, shepherd_world lines + bins) ✓; s3 (p3, note_world lines + bin) ✓; s4 (f_end, f_rd + bin "the time") ✓.

Now — hmm, one more consideration about `p2` and `p3` and the attribution binning. For sentence 2, I bin "that the shepherd had concluded" but keep p2 "foreman WROTE note". The words "He wrote that" are in the ledger (p2) and the inner attribution is in the bin. Good. But hmm, "He wrote that P" — where does "that P" (the that-clause) go? P's content is TOLD in shepherd_world (via the inner attribution rule). And the note's containing the report... Hmm, the fact "the note records the shepherd's conclusion" is not recorded (only p2 "foreman wrote note"). Is that a loss? The bin entry says the attribution "scopes the conclusion content and its reason to the told world shepherd_world". Combined with p2, a reader can rebuild: the foreman wrote [in the note] that the shepherd concluded this. I think that's acceptable and I'll make the bin reason explicit.

Hmm, alternatively make the bin entry words "He wrote that the shepherd had concluded" with reason "attribution frame: the note records the following as the shepherd's conclusion; it scopes sh1–sh4 to shepherd_world. The writing itself is kept as happening p2." Then p2 covers "He wrote" and the bin covers the frame. Hmm, but then "He wrote" is in both. That's fine ("or both"). Hmm, but the bin's "words from the text" should be what's removed from the ledger. Since p2 keeps the writing, only the attribution frame is binned. I'll bin "that the shepherd had concluded". Hmm — but "that" introduces the content...

Let me make the bin entry words: "that the shepherd had concluded" and the reason clear. Fine.

Hmm, similarly for sentence 3: "The foreman added, from what he saw himself, that the lower field was empty of grass." — p3 keeps "the foreman added"; the bin keeps "from what he saw himself"; and "that the lower field was empty of grass" is the content → nf1 TOLD in note_world. But wait — why note_world and not actual? Because it's what the note says. Hmm, and the attribution "from what he saw himself" is the source attribution. But per the rule "write the content as TOLD in that person's world" — that person = the foreman. Hmm!! So should nf1 be TOLD in "foreman's sight" world rather than note_world?

Hmm. Rule 39: "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." — "from what he saw himself" attributes seeing/knowing to the foreman, not believing/concluding/wanting. And the "Outside the language" list includes "Who believes, knows or wants what" → bin.

Hmm, so is "the lower field was empty of grass" (a) the foreman's belief → foreman's world, or (b) the note's content → note_world? The text: "The foreman added, from what he saw himself, that the lower field was empty of grass." He added it to the note. The note says it. Per rule 14/39: "What a story, report, note, letter, speech or dream says is TOLD, in a named world of its own." → note_world. The "from what he saw himself" is a knowledge-source attribution → bin.

I'll go with note_world and explain in the readings (#12 above). ✓ Good, consistent with what I drafted.

Hmm, but then note_world's content is just nf1 + things. Fine.

Hmm, wait. Should p2/p3's content scoping create anything in note_world about the shepherd's report? No (binned attribution). OK.

One more consideration: the note_world and the actual — "the note ended with the time the rounds had finished" I put in actual (the narrator's description). Hmm, is that consistent with treating sentence 3's content as note_world? Sentence 3's content is inside "that ..." (what he added) — reported content. Sentence 4 is the narrator's direct description ("The note ended with..."), not inside a "that" clause or an attribution... hmm, but it describes the note's content (its last entry). Hmm!

"The note ended with the time the rounds had finished." — Is this (a) the narrator asserting a fact about the note object, or (b) reported note content? It's (a): a fact about the note (its structure). Like "The account had three pages". So actual CLAIMED. But what's recorded (the time of the rounds' finish) is note content... Hmm.

Under reading (a), f_end is actual. But then, does anything record what the note *says* about the rounds? Hmm — the note says "the rounds finished at [time]". If I treat the recorded time as note content, it'd be TOLD in note_world: "the rounds finished [stage: at the note's end]"? Hmm.

Hmm. Let me reconsider. Actually, maybe cleaner: f_end (CLAIMED, actual): "the note ended" and nf2 (TOLD in note_world): "the note's last entry is the rounds' finish time"? Hmm, that's about the note itself — a structural fact, not content.

Alternatively: nf2 (TOLD in note_world): "the rounds finished [stage: before the note's end]" — the note records that the rounds finished. Hmm! And the narrator's sentence presupposes it ("the time the rounds had finished" — a relative clause, GIVEN).

Hmm, I earlier decided f_rd is GIVEN actual. Let me reconsider: the phrase "the rounds had finished" is a relative clause modifying "the time" — per rule 4, relative clauses are GIVEN. GIVEN in which ledger? The sentence is the narrator's, so GIVEN in the actual ledger. But the note's recording of it is the note's content...

Hmm, I think there are two things: (1) the narrator's presupposition that the rounds finished (GIVEN, actual); (2) the note's last entry being that time (CLAIMED, actual, about the note).

And what the note *says* (that the rounds finished at time T) — that would be note content. Hmm, but the narrator asserts the note ended with it — which implies the note carries it. If I'm strict about "what a note says is TOLD in its own world", then the note's content would be TOLD. But the narrator here is describing the note's structure — and the content (a time) is outside the language anyway.

Hmm, hmm. To be consistent with sentence 3's handling (note content → note_world), maybe sentence 4's note-content should also be TOLD in note_world. But what is the content? "the time the rounds had finished" = the rounds' finish time. The fact content: "the rounds finished at [time]" → the time is outside. So the writable content: "the rounds finished" — TOLD in note_world? And the structural fact "the note's end is that entry" — actual.

Hmm, this is a fine distinction. Let me handle it thus:
- f_end (CLAIMED, said, actual): "the note ended with the rounds' finish time" — the narrator's description of the note's last entry. (This is a fact about the note object.)
- f_rd (GIVEN, said, actual): "rounds finished [stage: before the note's end]" — the narrator takes it for granted (relative clause).
- Bin s4: "the time" (the clock value; a number/when).

And in readings, note: "Sentence 4: I keep the sentence in the actual ledger as the narrator's own description of the note, unlike sentence 3's content, which sits inside what the foreman added and so is TOLD in note_world. The clock value is outside the language."

That's a defensible, explained choice. ✓

Hmm, but hmm — "the note ended with the time the rounds had finished" — one could argue the note's content is TOLD. I'll add this alternative to the reading entry. Fine.

Now — let me reconsider one thing: the standing of `f1` ("the note was kept on the foreman's rounds"). Main clause "The farm foreman kept notes" = CLAIMED (p1). The adjunct "on his evening rounds" = a description → GIVEN (f1). ✓ Rule 4 says descriptions ("who", "which", "as", "while", "-ing") are GIVEN. "on his rounds" is an adjunct of occasion — similar. OK, GIVEN.

Hmm, and `f_rd` GIVEN ✓ (relative clause "the rounds had finished").

Now the JSON "lines" entries: fields "mark", "sentence", "standing", "text", and for TOLD/SUPPOSED: "case", "case_kind". Let me set case names: "note_world", "shepherd_world". And standing "TOLD in world note_world" / "TOLD in world shepherd_world".

Hmm, the schema: `"standing": "CLAIMED" | "GIVEN" | "SUPPOSED in case <name>" | "TOLD in world <name>"`. ✓

Line ids: must be short lower-case letters or words with no spaces. I have: foreman, note, rounds, p1, f1, p2, p3, f_end, f_rd, lower_field, grass, nf1, shepherd, flock, gate, top_field, sh1, sh2, sh3, sh4. Underscores allowed. ✓ (Not ending in _N... "f_end", "f_rd", "nf1", "top_field", "lower_field" — hmm! "Names that end in an underscore and a number. The checker's printout merges them." — "nf1" ends in "f1" — is that "an underscore and a number"? "nf1" = n,f,1 — no underscore before the1. OK. "sh1" — no underscore. "p1", "f1" fine. "f_end" ends in "end" fine. OK ✓.

Hmm, "f1" and "f_rd"/"f_end" — inconsistent naming. Let me rename for clarity: `keep_link` (f1), `note_end` (f_end), `rounds_done` (f_rd)? Hmm, or keep as is. Let me use clearer word ids:
- `foreman`, `note`, `rounds`, `keep1` (happening p1), `keep_link` (f1), `write1` (p2), `add1` (p3), `note_end`, `rounds_done`, `lower_field`, `grass`, `field_fact` (nf1), `shepherd`, `flock`, `gate`, `top_field`, `top_fact` (sh1), `gate_open` (sh2), `gate_rule` (sh3), `since1` (sh4).

Hmm, "keep1" ends in a number but no underscore — fine. Let me use word ids where possible:
- things: `foreman`, `note`, `rounds`, `lower_field`, `grass`, `shepherd`, `flock`, `gate`, `top_field`
- happenings: `kept_notes` (p1), `wrote_note` (p2), `added_note` (p3)
- facts: `on_rounds` (f1), `note_end` (f_end), `rounds_done` (f_rd), `field_empty` (nf1), `flock_top` (sh1), `gate_stood_open` (sh2)
- general: `gate_rule` (sh3)
- claim: `since1` (sh4)

Hmm, `wrote_note` and `added_note` as happening names — the happening's name IS its number. Fine.

But careful: fact terms in prolog must match across claim_since etc. `flock_top` line holds `in(flock, top_field)`; `since1` claims `claim_since(since1, in(flock, top_field), gate_open(gate))` pointing at `gate_stood_open` which holds `gate_open(gate)`. ✓

Let me finalize ids:
1. `foreman` — thing
2. `note` — thing
3. `rounds` — thing
4. `kept_notes` — happening p1
5. `on_rounds` — fact f1
6. `wrote_note` — happening p2 (filled in)
7. `added_note` — happening p3 (filled in)
8. `note_end` — fact f_end
9. `rounds_done` — fact f_rd
10. `lower_field` — thing (TOLD note_world)
11. `grass` — thing (TOLD note_world)
12. `field_empty` — fact (TOLD note_world)
13. `shepherd` — thing (TOLD shepherd_world)
14. `flock` — thing (TOLD shepherd_world)
15. `gate` — thing (TOLD shepherd_world)
16. `top_field` — thing (TOLD shepherd_world)
17. `flock_top` — fact (TOLD shepherd_world)
18. `gate_stood_open` — fact (TOLD shepherd_world)
19. `gate_rule` — general (TOLD shepherd_world)
20. `since1` — SINCE claim (TOLD shepherd_world)

In sh4's text I referenced "line sh1 SINCE line sh2; line sh3 ..." — must update to "line flock_top SINCE line gate_stood_open; line gate_rule is the rule the shepherd gives with it".

Also gate_rule's text references. Fine.

Hmm — but "A happening's name is its number; it has no second one" — so `kept_notes` is the happening's number. ✓

Now, the table "Number" column: use these ids.

Let me also double-check the Prolog for `kept_notes`: `holds(kept(foreman, note)) :- line(kept_notes).` ✓ `wrote_note`: `holds(wrote(foreman, note)) :- line(wrote_note).` ✓ `added_note`: `holds(added_to(foreman, note)) :- line(added_note).` ✓

Hmm — one issue: is `wrote(foreman, note)` a fact or a happening? It's expressed as holds() since the checker only queries those predicates. Fine; I'll note in the readings? Not necessary.

Now, the counts: said 18, filled in 2 (wrote_note, added_note), usual case 0.

Wait — should I consider a "usual case" line anywhere? E.g., "the gate stands open as the shepherd left it" — I decided NOT to add it (rule 9). ✓ So0 usual case.

Now, bin entries list format for section 2: "Each entry: the words from the text, and the reason they are here." I'll write: "Sentence 1, 'evening' — reason: ...".

Let me write section 2 as a list:
- Sentence 1, "evening" — a time of day; the language holds no "when" beyond a stage named in a fact, so the timing word goes here.
- Sentence 2, "that the shepherd had concluded" — an attribution of a conclusion to the shepherd; who concludes what is outside the language. It scopes the conclusion and its reason to the told world shepherd_world. The writing itself is kept as line wrote_note.
- Sentence 2, "must" — a modal of necessity ("may, must, should, can" are outside the language).
- Sentence 3, "from what he saw himself" — an attribution of where the foreman's knowledge came from; who sees or knows what is outside the language. The content is what the note says and is kept in note_world.
- Sentence 4, "the time" — a clock time is a number and a "when", outside the language. The text gives no value; line note_end keeps only that the note's end carried the rounds' finish time.

Good.

Now let me also make sure I account for figures of speech, irony, tone: none apparent. Should I say so? Not required in output sections. Fine.

Quoted commands and questions: none.

Now, "5. The count: lines said, lines filled in, lines usual case, sentences that lost something to the bin." → "lines said: 18; lines filled in: 2; lines usual case: 0; sentences that lost something to the bin: 4 (sentences 1, 2, 3, 4)."

Now the PARKED list:
- "The shepherd's reason leaves two steps unstated: that the gate's standing open is the shepherd's leaving it open, and that driving the flock through the gate puts the flock in the top field; whether that makes the reason weak is for the checker and the reader, not for me."
Hmm — the parking place is for "Judgements about whether the writer's reasoning is good, and ideas for procedures, graphs, algorithms or scoring". So:
- "Judgement: the shepherd's stated reason carries two steps it never states (the open gate as his leaving it open; the gate's leading to the top field)."
- "Judgement: the foreman's note records a sight (the lower field empty of grass) that nothing in the note uses."
- "Idea: a report could print, for each SINCE claim, the longest route the ledger supports and the exact point where it stops."

Three lines. Fine.

Now let me write out the JSON carefully.

```
{
 "paragraph": "B01",
 "whose": "Claude (Anthropic), under L82",
 "sentences": {
  "1": "The farm foreman kept notes on his evening rounds.",
  "2": "He wrote that the shepherd had concluded the flock must be in the top field, since the gate stood open, and the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it.",
  "3": "The foreman added, from what he saw himself, that the lower field was empty of grass.",
  "4": "The note ended with the time the rounds had finished."
 },
 "bin": [
  {"sentence": 1, "words": "evening", "reason": "Time of day of the rounds; the language holds no 'when' beyond a stage named in a fact, so the timing word goes here."},
  {"sentence": 2, "words": "that the shepherd had concluded", "reason": "Attribution of a conclusion to the shepherd; who concludes what is outside the language. It scopes the conclusion content and its reason to shepherd_world. The writing itself is kept as line wrote_note."},
  {"sentence": 2, "words": "must", "reason": "Modal of necessity; 'may, must, should, can' are outside the language."},
  {"sentence": 3, "words": "from what he saw himself", "reason": "Attribution of where the foreman's knowledge came from; who sees or knows what is outside the language. The content is what the note says and is kept in note_world."},
  {"sentence": 4, "words": "the time", "reason": "A clock time is a number and a 'when', outside the language. The text gives no value; line note_end keeps only that the note's end carried the rounds' finish time."}
 ],
 "leftover": [
  "Sentence 1: evening — Time of day of the rounds; the language holds no 'when' beyond a stage named in a fact, so the timing word goes here.",
  ...
 ],
 "whatifs": [],
 "lines": {...},
 "words_split": [],
 "readings_chosen": [...]
}
```

Order of keys: the schema lists bin before leftover. In T10D, leftover came before bin. Doesn't matter. I'll follow the schema order: bin then leftover.

Now the lines JSON. Let me write each.

```
"foreman": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 1, "standing": "CLAIMED", "text": "[CLAIMED] foreman is a farm_foreman; response to a press not stated; DOER", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(foreman, farm_foreman) :- line(foreman).", "body(foreman, not_stated) :- line(foreman)."]},
```
Hmm — the text should be "[<standing>] <the line in the language's words>". The thing line's language shape: "NAME is a KIND; it answers a press as one of the six response classes; it may be a DOER". So text: "foreman is a farm_foreman; it answers a press as not stated; it is a DOER". Let me phrase consistently: "foreman is a farm_foreman; it answers a press as not stated; it is a DOER".

Hmm, "not stated" as the response class — the list has "not stated (the text does not say)". ✓

Let me use for all things: "<name> is a <kind>; it answers a press as not stated" plus "; it is a DOER" for foreman and shepherd.

OK now, writing everything out. Also the table.

One more check on rule: "Every line has all five parts" ✓ (Number, Standing, Content, Source mark, Sentence) in the table.

Also final checks: "Every image, quoted command and attributed belief is accounted for in the bin." — attributed beliefs: "the shepherd had concluded" ✓ binned; "from what he saw himself" ✓ binned. No images, no commands. ✓

Let me also double check sentence 2's "He wrote that..." — hmm, one more thought: should p2 `wrote_note` be CLAIMED or is the writing part of the note-world? It's the narrator's assertion about the foreman → CLAIMED, actual. ✓

Hmm, and "He" = the foreman (pronoun resolution) — plain. ✓ (No bin needed; pronouns resolve to named things.)

Now — the note about verbs with no shape: "kept", "wrote", "added" are not in the shape book → the checker reports "not checked" and counts. Should I mention it in the output? Section 5 is "The count: lines said, lines filled in, lines usual case, sentences that lost something to the bin" — no verb count. The JSON schema has no field for it (T10D had "translation_gauge.verbs_without_shape"). Hmm — the guide says "Every field below is required unless marked optional" and doesn't forbid extras. Adding "verbs_without_shape" could help. But "Nothing else goes in that block" — hmm, that phrase is about the block containing only the JSON object. Extra fields are part of the JSON object. T10D (an example to match) has extras.

Hmm, risk assessment: the driver reads it; "a program builds the Prolog file from it". Extra fields probably ignored. Missing required fields are worse. I'll include exactly the listed fields to be safe and mention the verbs-without-shape in the printed prose (section 5 or the readings?). Hmm, 39's output form has exactly five sections. Adding a note inside section 5? "The count: ..." — I could append a line under section 5? That deviates from "exactly this form". Hmm. I'll mention it in PARKED? No, PARKED is for judgements/ideas.

Hmm. Let me include it in the JSON as an extra field "verbs_without_shape" — mirroring T10D's "translation_gauge". Hmm... "Match their shapes" (referring to the three examples). T10D's shape includes translation_gauge. I'll include a compact "translation_gauge" object like T10D's. That seems aligned with "Match their shapes". But the schema in the guide doesn't show it... The guide says the JSON has the listed fields; T10D has more. Since T10D is one of "three complete examples" whose shapes I should match, extras are acceptable.

Hmm, but the guide's schema is explicit and says "Every field below is required unless marked optional" — it doesn't say "and no others". I'll include a small "translation_gauge" with counts and verbs_without_shape. That also covers "the count of lines said, filled in and usual case; the verbs with no shape" which the report must carry. Actually — hmm, that's the checker's report, not mine. But example T10D's translator included it. I'll include it. Low risk, potential benefit.

Hmm, hmm. Actually, let me reconsider: if the driver is strict about schema (e.g., validates keys), extra keys could break it. If it's loose (reads specific keys), extras are fine. Given T10D is presented as a model ("Match their shapes"), and it has extras, loose is likely. I'll include "translation_gauge". Hmm... but example_A.json is minimal and has different line shapes (no standing!). Hmm, examples vary.

Decision: include the listed fields only, exactly — safest with respect to "print exactly what the task and the guide ask for". But then the verb-shape info is lost... I can put it in the line text ("verb 'keep' has no shape in the shape book")? Hmm, that's meta-text in the content field. Examples do append notes after semicolons in content ("; opener not named"). So I can append to p1's text: "kept_notes: foreman KEPT note; 'keep' has no shape in the shape book". That's informative and matches example style (T10D: "window was opened; opener not named"). 

But careful: the Content column should be ledger-language words. A note after a semicolon is used in examples (P14: "ALWAYS SHOWS: a helping member pays the cost; generic description"). OK, acceptable.

Hmm, but the sentence's verb shape absence is a property the checker discovers ("A verb missing from the shape book is reported 'not checked' and counted"). Fine, I'll note it briefly in the content text for p1, p2, p3? Or just let the checker do it. Hmm, "the translator's rules, as things to do" say "Happenings. Write who did what to what, and which way, using the text's own verb. Keep the push, the movement and the link between them; send words of degree such as 'so hard' to the bin." Nothing about noting shape absence. The checker handles it. I'll add a brief note anyway for the three happenings — hmm, it adds noise to the content. Let me instead add one line in the readings: "Sentences 1–3: the verbs 'kept', 'wrote' and 'added' have no shape in the shape book; the checker will report them 'not checked'." — that's a reading? Not really a reading... it's a note. Hmm.

Alternatively include "translation_gauge" in JSON after all. Hmm.

OK let me do both minimal-risk things: (a) note the unshaped verbs in a "Readings I chose" entry phrased as a reading (which verb form I took), and (b) include a "translation_gauge" object in the JSON mirroring T10D (since I'm told to match those shapes). Hmm, (b) risk...

Let me think about "Match their shapes" once more: "## Three complete examples — Attached as example_T10D.json ..., example_P14.json ... and example_A.json with example_A.pl ... Match their shapes." — The three examples have quite different shapes (example_A's lines lack standing entirely!). So "match their shapes" means match the general form/vocabulary, not literally every key. The schema above is authoritative. I'll follow the schema exactly and NOT add translation_gauge. And I'll cover the unshaped verbs in a readings entry.

Hmm, but the readings entries have a required form: "each as: the sentence, the readings open to me, the one I took." A note about verb shapes doesn't fit. Hmm. OK — I'll append the shape note to the three happening lines' content after a semicolon (like T10D's "; opener not named"). That's within the content field and informative:

- kept_notes content: "kept_notes: foreman KEPT note; 'keep' has no shape in the shape book" hmm... but the content shape is "NAME: DOER VERB THING [DIRECTION]" and notes after semicolons appear in examples. OK.

Hmm, hmm. But is that "the line in the language's words"? Partially meta. Examples do it. Fine. Actually, let me keep content clean and instead put it in section 5? "The count: lines said, lines filled in, lines usual case, sentences that lost something to the bin" — the form is specified. Hmm.

OK, decision: append the short note to the happening lines' content ( "; verb has no shape in the shape book"). It's honest, matches example style, and preserves the info. For p2/p3 I already have "; the sentence names no object of writing, the translator takes the note as what he wrote in". I'll add the shape note there too? Getting long. Let me write:

- kept_notes: "kept_notes: foreman KEPT note; 'kept' has no shape in the shape book" (said)
- wrote_note: "wrote_note: foreman WROTE note — filled in: the sentence names no object of writing; the translator takes the note as what he wrote in; 'wrote' has no shape in the shape book" (filled in)

Hmm, per rule 15, "mark the whole line filled in and say in it which part you added" ✓.

- added_note: "added_note: foreman ADDED TO note — filled in: the sentence names no object of adding; the translator takes the note as what he added to; 'added' has no shape in the shape book" (filled in)

OK good.

Hmm, for p1 marked "said" with a meta note — the note about the shape isn't an addition of content, just an observation. Fine.

Now let me also double check: should `on_rounds` be a fact or should the keeping-on-rounds be a "stage"? It's fine as a fact.

Hmm — one more: the fact `on_rounds` content "the note was kept on the foreman's rounds" — prolog `holds(kept_on(note, rounds))`. Hmm, "the foreman's rounds" — I write `rounds` (the thing) and the foreman link is implicit. Should I record "rounds belong to foreman"? Hmm, "his evening rounds" — the foreman's rounds. The link foreman–rounds is in the text ("his"). Since `on_rounds` says "the note was kept on the foreman's rounds", the link is in the line's text. For prolog, maybe `holds(kept_on(note, rounds)) :- line(on_rounds).` and `holds(rounds_of(foreman, rounds))?` Hmm, that would be a second clause for the same line — allowed ("one or more Prolog clauses"). But is "rounds_of(foreman, rounds)" needed by anything? No. Keep one clause but make it carry the link: `holds(kept_on_rounds(note, foreman, rounds))`? Hmm, that's a3-arg fact. Fine: `holds(kept_on(note, foreman_rounds))`? Hmm.

Let me use two clauses on `on_rounds`:
```
holds(kept_on(note, rounds)) :- line(on_rounds).
holds(rounds_of(foreman, rounds)) :- line(on_rounds).
```
Hmm, that's clean: it records both the link and the ownership. But check 3 concerns only claim_* terms. Fine. Hmm, but "Every clause of a line has line(<id>) as its first body goal" ✓.

Hmm, simpler: `holds(kept_on_rounds(note, foreman, rounds)) :- line(on_rounds).` Hmm. I'll do the two-clause version. Hmm, or one: `holds(kept_on(note, rounds)) :- line(on_rounds).` and put "the foreman's" in the text only. Hmm. Two clauses is fine and richer. Let me do two clauses.

Hmm, actually — the fact "the rounds are the foreman's rounds" is said in the text ("his evening rounds"), so it deserves recording. Two clauses. ✓

Now, `rounds_done`: `holds(finished(rounds)) :- line(rounds_done).` ✓

`note_end`: `holds(ended_with(note, rounds_finish_time)) :- line(note_end).` ✓

`field_empty`: `holds(empty_of_grass(lower_field)) :- line(field_empty).` ✓

`flock_top`: `holds(in(flock, top_field)) :- line(flock_top).` ✓

`gate_stood_open`: `holds(gate_open(gate)) :- line(gate_stood_open).` ✓

`gate_rule`: `holds(driven_through(flock, gate)) :- line(gate_rule), holds(left_open_by(shepherd, gate)).` ✓

`since1`: `claim_since(since1, in(flock, top_field), gate_open(gate)) :- line(since1).` ✓

Now the reading entries must be strings in "readings_chosen" — the form: "Sentence N: <the readings open to me>; chosen: <the one taken>". Let me format each as "Sentence N: ...; chosen: ...".

Let me finalize the readings list (also used in section 4 prose):

1. "Sentence 1: 'kept notes' (plural) and 'the note' (sentence 4) — readings: one record kept over the rounds, or several records; chosen: one record, named note, with the singular in sentence 4 read as the same record."
2. "Sentence 1: 'on his evening rounds' — readings: a pure occasion-and-time phrase, all of it outside the language, or also a link between the keeping and the rounds that the language can hold as a fact; chosen: the link, kept as line on_rounds (said), with only 'evening' binned as a time of day."
3. "Sentence 2: 'He wrote that ...' — readings: the writing is only the note's frame and is binned as an attribution, or the writing is a doing the narrator asserts; chosen: the doing, kept as line wrote_note, marked filled in because the sentence names no object of writing and the note is the translator's pick."
4. "Sentence 2: 'the shepherd had concluded' — readings: the conclusion is the note's content as a whole (note_world), or the conclusion is the shepherd's and goes to his own world; chosen: the shepherd's own world, per the rule on attributed conclusions; lines flock_top, gate_stood_open, gate_rule and since1 are TOLD in shepherd_world."
5. "Sentence 2: 'must be in the top field' — readings: 'must' is a modal of necessity and is dropped, or 'must' marks the conclusion as forced by the reason and is kept; chosen: dropped, binned as a modal; flock_top is the plain fact 'the flock is in the top field' and the force of the reason is what since1 records."
6. "Sentence 2: 'that gate' — readings: the top field's gate, so that driving the flock through it would put the flock in the top field, or a gate whose field the text never names; chosen: the second — no line says which field the gate belongs to and no line runs from 'driven through the gate' to 'in the top field', since an added line may not let the opposite follow just as well."
7. "Sentence 2: 'the shepherd always left that gate open only once the flock had been driven through it' — readings: one direction (his leaving the gate open never happens except after the flock has been driven through), or two directions (also, whenever he drove the flock through, he left the gate open); chosen: one direction, written as gate_rule in the direction the shepherd uses."
8. "Sentence 2: the general line's kind — readings: MAKES or SHOWS; chosen: SHOWS, because the flock's being driven through comes before the shepherd's leaving the gate open, so the leaving cannot produce it and can only be how one tells. The word 'always' settles ALWAYS, and the sentence's order settles the kind, so gate_rule keeps the mark said."
9. "Sentence 2: 'left that gate open' — readings: caused or allowed the gate to remain open, or departed leaving the gate open behind him; chosen: the first, the ordinary sense; both readings leave the gate open in the shepherd's hands as the one who left it."
10. "Sentence 2: 'since the gate stood open, and the shepherd always left that gate open only once ...' — readings: two reasons each offered on its own, or one reason (the gate's standing open) with the second clause as the rule that licenses the step; chosen: the second — since1 is one SINCE line pointing at gate_stood_open, with gate_rule kept in the ledger as the rule the checker can use by any route."
11. "Sentence 2: the gap between 'the gate stood open' (gate_stood_open) and 'the shepherd leaves the gate open' (gate_rule's condition) — readings: they are the same for the ledger (the gate stands open as he left it), or they are different and the link is unstated; chosen: the second — no line links them, so the checker can report the step as unstated."
12. "Sentence 3: 'from what he saw himself' — readings: it makes the content a claim about the actual world on the foreman's own authority, or it is an attribution of where the foreman's knowledge came from; chosen: the attribution, binned as who-knows-what, with the content kept as what the note says (TOLD in note_world)."
13. "Sentence 3: 'added' — readings: the object of adding is the statement, which the translator must name, or the doing can be written with the note as what he added to; chosen: the second — added_note is 'foreman ADDED TO note', marked filled in because the sentence names no object."
14. "Sentence 4: 'the note ended with the time the rounds had finished' — readings: the whole phrase is the note's content (TOLD in note_world), or the narrator's own description of the note's last entry with 'the rounds had finished' as a relative clause he takes for granted; chosen: the second — note_end is CLAIMED, rounds_done is GIVEN, and the clock value 'the time' is binned."
15. "Sentences 1 to 3: the verbs 'kept', 'wrote' and 'added' have no shape in the shape book — readings: substitute a shaped verb, or write the text's own verb and let the checker report 'not checked'; chosen: the text's own verb in each happening."

Hmm #15 isn't exactly a "readings" entry but it is a choice. Fine.

16. "Spelling: no slips of spelling in the text; nothing open, nothing taken."

Hmm, maybe merge 15 & 16. Keep both, fine.

Words I split: "None — no word in the text carries two senses." Hmm, but maybe "left"? It has one sense used. OK: "None."

Now, the prose output. Let me write it.

Also, should I number lines in the table as I did? The "Number" column = line id. ✓

Let me write the table.

| Number | Standing | Content | Source mark | Sentence |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| foreman | CLAIMED | foreman is a farm_foreman; it answers a press as not stated; it is a DOER | said | 1 |
| note | CLAIMED | note is a note; it answers a press as not stated | said | 1 |
| rounds | CLAIMED | rounds is a rounds; it answers a press as not stated | said | 1 |
| kept_notes | CLAIMED | kept_notes: foreman KEPT note; 'kept' has no shape in the shape book | said | 1 |
| on_rounds | GIVEN | the note was kept on the foreman's rounds | said | 1 |
| wrote_note | CLAIMED | wrote_note: foreman WROTE note; filled in: the sentence names no object of writing and the translator takes the note as what he wrote in; 'wrote' has no shape in the shape book | filled in | 2 |
| field_empty ...wait ordering: by sentence then logic. Let me order: sentence 1 lines, sentence 2 lines (actual + shepherd_world), sentence 3 lines (actual + note_world), sentence 4 lines. Hmm, or group by world? The task says "Write the lines, sentence by sentence." So order by sentence. Let me order:

s1: foreman, note, rounds, kept_notes, on_rounds
s2: wrote_note (actual), shepherd, flock, gate, top_field, flock_top, gate_stood_open, gate_rule, since1
s3: added_note (actual), lower_field, grass, field_empty
s4: note_end, rounds_done

That's 5 + 8 + 4 + 2 = 19. Hmm! I count 19 now. Earlier I had 20. Let me recount: s1: 5 (foreman, note, rounds, kept_notes, on_rounds). s2: wrote_note + shepherd, flock, gate, top_field, flock_top, gate_stood_open, gate_rule, since1 = 1 + 8 = 9. s3: added_note + lower_field, grass, field_empty = 1 + 3 = 4. s4: note_end, rounds_done = 2. Total = 5+9+4+2 = 20. ✓ (I miscounted above: s2 = 9.)

Counts: said = 20 - 2 filled in = 18 ✓.

Good.

Now, hmm, `since1`'s sentence = 2 ✓.

Let me write the final output.

One more consideration on the table's Content for things — the language's thing line shape: "NAME is a KIND; it answers a press as one of the six response classes; it may be a DOER". I'll write: "foreman is a farm_foreman; it answers a press as not stated; it is a DOER". ✓

For TOLD things, the standing column shows the world.

Now, the bin section prose (section 2) — "Each entry: the words from the text, and the reason they are here." ✓

Section 3: "Words I split, each with both senses." → "None."

Section 4: readings.

Section 5: the count.

PARKED.

Then JSON block, then TRANSLATION COMPLETE.

Let me write the JSON now in full, carefully, valid JSON.

Also "leftover" strings: 'Sentence N: <words> — <reason>'. Use an em dash.

Let me now assemble everything.

Double-check JSON escaping: apostrophes are fine inside double-quoted strings. Em dash fine. No trailing commas.

Let me write the lines block:

"lines": {
 "foreman": {"mark":"said","sentence":1,"standing":"CLAIMED","text":"[CLAIMED] foreman is a farm_foreman; it answers a press as not stated; it is a DOER","prolog_clauses":["kind(foreman, farm_foreman) :- line(foreman).","body(foreman, not_stated) :- line(foreman)."]},
 "note": {"mark":"said","sentence":1,"standing":"CLAIMED","text":"[CLAIMED] note is a note; it answers a press as not stated","prolog_clauses":["kind(note, note) :- line(note).","body(note, not_stated) :- line(note)."]},
 "rounds": {"mark":"said","sentence":1,"standing":"CLAIMED","text":"[CLAIMED] rounds is a rounds; it answers a press as not stated","prolog_clauses":["kind(rounds, rounds) :- line(rounds).","body(rounds, not_stated) :- line(rounds)."]},
 "kept_notes": {"mark":"said","sentence":1,"standing":"CLAIMED","text":"[CLAIMED] kept_notes: foreman KEPT note; 'kept' has no shape in the shape book","prolog_clauses":["holds(kept(foreman, note)) :- line(kept_notes)."]},
 "on_rounds": {"mark":"said","sentence":1,"standing":"GIVEN","text":"[GIVEN] the note was kept on the foreman's rounds","prolog_clauses":["holds(kept_on(note, rounds)) :- line(on_rounds).","holds(rounds_of(foreman, rounds)) :- line(on_rounds)."]},
 "wrote_note": {"mark":"filled in","sentence":2,"standing":"CLAIMED","text":"[CLAIMED] wrote_note: foreman WROTE note; filled in: the sentence names no object of writing, the translator takes the note as what he wrote in; 'wrote' has no shape in the shape book","prolog_clauses":["holds(wrote(foreman, note)) :- line(wrote_note)."]},
 "shepherd": {"mark":"said","sentence":2,"standing":"TOLD in world shepherd_world","text":"[TOLD in world shepherd_world] shepherd is a shepherd; it answers a press as not stated; it is a DOER","case":"shepherd_world","case_kind":"told","prolog_clauses":["kind(shepherd, shepherd) :- line(shepherd).","body(shepherd, not_stated) :- line(shepherd)."]},
 "flock": {...},
 "gate": {...},
 "top_field": {...},
 "flock_top": {...},
 "gate_stood_open": {...},
 "gate_rule": {...},
 "since1": {...},
 "added_note": {...},
 "lower_field": {...},
 "grass": {...},
 "field_empty": {...},
 "note_end": {...},
 "rounds_done": {...}
}

Good.

For "readings_chosen" the strings must be reasonably concise; I'll use the ones drafted.

Now, prose sections mirror these.

Also: the user says "print exactly what the task and the guide ask for, ending with the JSON block and then the words TRANSLATION COMPLETE." So after the JSON block, a line "TRANSLATION COMPLETE".

Let me write it all out now.

For section 2 (bin) prose entries, I'll quote the words.

Final answer below.