Let me analyze the text and produce the ledger translation.

The text:
1. "The dockyard clerk read through the harbourmaster's log for the week."
2. "In it, the harbourmaster had written that the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned."
3. "The log went on to record the names of the crew and the weight of the catch."
4. "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that six boats had tied up before noon."
5. "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier."

Key structural points:
- Sentence 1: clerk reads the log. CLAIMED.
- Sentence 2: "In it, the harbourmaster had written that..." — this is a reported content. The harbourmaster's writing is TOLD in a named world (log_world / harbourmaster_world). The content: trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned. The "because" is inside the told world.
- Sentence 3: "The log went on to record..." — again reported content in the log. TOLD.
- Sentence 4: "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that six boats had tied up before noon." — The clerk noted; attribution to bin, content... Hmm. The clerk's noting is an attribution. Per rules: "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." So the content (six boats tied up before noon) is TOLD in clerk_world? But wait — "from her own count" suggests the clerk counted. The noting is the clerk's mental act. The content is what she noted. Per rule 14 and the attribution rule, the content goes TOLD in that person's world.

Actually, let me think. Sentence 4: "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that six boats had tied up before noon." The attribution "The clerk also noted" goes to bin; the content "six boats had tied up before noon" is TOLD in clerk's world. But "from her own count" — that's a basis, a reason. Hmm, it could be a SINCE within the told world? That might be over-engineering. Let me keep it simpler: bin the attribution, TOLD the content.

Actually wait — is the clerk's noting a "story, report, note"? Yes, a note. So TOLD in world clerk_note.

- Sentence 5: "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier." — "the rest of the entry concerned" is again reported content of the log. TOLD in log_world: repairs due on the north pier.

Hmm, but sentence 5's "concerned" is vague. The entry's content is about repairs. I could write: TOLD in log_world: the entry concerns repairs due on the north pier. Or as a fact: repairs are due on the north pier (TOLD). Let me write it as a told fact.

Things: clerk, log (harbourmaster's log for the week), harbourmaster, trawler, bar, tide, crew, catch, boats (six boats), north pier, repairs, entry.

Sentence 2 details: "the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned." Inside log_world: happening — trawler crosses bar (verb "cross" — no shape in the shape book; it's not a press verb. Happening with verb "crossed"). "early" — time, goes to bin (when, beyond order). "because the tide had turned" — BECAUSE claim inside the world: tide turned, and crossing because tide turned. "had turned" — the tide turned (verb turn, no shape).

Wait, but the tide turning — is that a fact in the world? Yes: TOLD in log_world: the tide turned. And the crossing happened. And BECAUSE: crossing BECAUSE tide turned.

Hmm, careful: "the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned." The cause is the tide's turning. Effect: crossing early. But "early" is binned (time). So effect: trawler crossed the bar. The BECAUSE points at the crossing and the tide turning.

Sentence 3: "The log went on to record the names of the crew and the weight of the catch." TOLD in log_world: the log records the names of the crew; the log records the weight of the catch. "weight" — amount/quantity, goes to bin? "the weight of the catch" — weight is a quantity. Hmm. The fact "the log records the weight of the catch" — the recording is the fact; the weight itself is a quantity that can't be written. I could write: TOLD: the log records the weight of the catch (the weight itself not stated, quantity binned). Actually the sentence doesn't give a number, so nothing to bin numerically. But "weight" as quantity... The language has no form for quantities. I'll write the fact as "the log records the weight of the catch" and bin "the weight of the catch" as a quantity not writable? Hmm, that seems excessive. Let me think: the content is that the log records names and weight. That's a plain fact about what the log records. The weight value is not given. I think it's fine to write: TOLD in log_world: log records the names of the crew; TOLD: log records the weight of the catch. And bin nothing except maybe noting quantity. Actually, to be safe, bin "the weight of the catch" with reason: a quantity, and the language has no form for quantities; the recording is kept as a fact.

Hmm, but then sentence 3 would lose something to the bin. That's fine and honest.

Alternatively, keep it fully: the fact "the log records the weight of the catch" doesn't state a quantity, so nothing to bin. But the guide says "How much... Some, most, few, and numbers" go to bin. Weight is a "how much". I'll bin it with the reason, and keep the recording fact.

Actually, let me reconsider. The fact I write is "the log records the weight of the catch" — this is a fact about the log's content, not about the weight itself. The weight as such is never stated. I think the cleanest: write the recording facts, and bin "the weight of the catch" — a quantity the language has no form for; only its being recorded is kept.

Sentence 4: "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that six boats had tied up before noon." Attribution binned. Content TOLD in clerk_note world: six boats tied up. "six" — number, binned. "before noon" — when, binned. "tied up" — verb phrase, boats tie up (verb "tie up", no shape in book — not checked). So: TOLD in clerk_world: boats tied up (some boats; number binned). Hmm, "six boats" — I can name the thing "six boats" as a group? The number is binned but the thing... I could write "boats tied up" with the quantity binned. Let me name the thing "boats" (the six boats). Thing line: boats are boats; response not stated. Happening: boats tied up. And bin "six" (number) and "before noon" (when).

"from her own count" — the basis of the noting. Bin it: a reason for the clerk's noting; the language has no form for evidence/basis. Or is it a SINCE? It gives a reason to believe. Hmm. "noted, from her own count, that..." — the count is the grounds. I could add a SINCE line in the clerk's world: the boats tied up SINCE the clerk counted them? That's odd. Actually the noting is based on the count. I think binning "from her own count" as an attribution of evidence is cleanest. But maybe a filled-in SINCE line? The rule: "SINCE where it gives a reason to expect or believe." The clerk's count is a reason to believe six boats tied up. Hmm, but the count is the clerk's own observation. I'll bin it with reason: evidence/basis for the noting; the language records the content, not the grounds.

Actually, let me reconsider — maybe better to include it as a told fact: the clerk counted the boats. "from her own count" implies the clerk counted the boats herself. That's a plain fact: the clerk counted the boats. Then the noting follows from the count... but that's an inference. Hmm. I think I'll write: TOLD in clerk_world: the clerk counted the boats (filled in? no — "from her own count" implies it; it's said-ish). Actually "from her own count" is a phrase indicating basis, not an explicit statement that she counted. But it strongly implies. I'd mark it "filled in" as a reading. Hmm, or keep it simple and bin it.

Let me decide: bin "from her own count" with reason: the grounds of the noting; the language has no form for evidence, and the counting is implied rather than stated. And note in readings_chosen.

Hmm, but actually, being thorough: I could add a filled-in line: TOLD in clerk_world: the clerk counted the boats (filled in, reading of "from her own count"). That accounts for it in the ledger rather than the bin. I think that's better — it captures the meaning. And then maybe a SINCE: boats tied up SINCE clerk counted them? No, that's backwards — the count is of the tied-up boats. The count is evidence. I'll just have the counting fact and bin the "from" relation as grounds.

Hmm, I'm overcomplicating. Let me settle:

Sentence 4 lines:
- clerk counted the boats — TOLD in clerk_world, filled in (reading of "from her own count").
- boats tied up — TOLD in clerk_world, said.
- bin: "six" (number), "before noon" (when), "The clerk also noted" (attribution — scopes content to clerk_world).

Wait, but if the counting is in clerk_world and the noting is the attribution... The noting is the clerk's mental act in the actual world? Actually "noted" is like "believed/wrote down". The rule says send the attribution to the bin and write the content as TOLD in that person's world. So the content (boats tied up) is TOLD in clerk_world. The clerk's counting, being her own, is also in clerk_world (it's part of her report). Hmm, or the counting is actual? The sentence asserts the clerk counted — actually it says "from her own count", implying she did count. The main assertion of the sentence is that the clerk noted something. Everything else is within her noting.

I think cleanest: bin the attribution "The clerk also noted" (scopes content to clerk_world). In clerk_world: boats tied up (said); clerk counted the boats (filled in reading of "from her own count"). Bin "six" and "before noon".

Sentence 5: "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier." The "entry" is the log entry. "concerned" — the entry's content is about repairs. TOLD in log_world: the entry concerns repairs due on the north pier. Or: repairs are due on the north pier (TOLD). I'll write: TOLD in log_world: repairs are due on the north pier. And maybe also that the entry concerns them. Hmm — "concerned" is about the entry's content. I'll write one line: TOLD in log_world: the rest of the entry concerns repairs due on the north pier. Plus thing lines for repairs, north pier? "repairs due on the north pier" — repairs are a thing? Kind of. Let me add: north_pier is a pier; response not stated. Repairs — an event/thing. I'll write a fact: repairs are due on the north pier (TOLD).

Hmm, "due" — when something is due is time. "repairs due" means repairs are owed/scheduled. The fact: repairs are due on the north pier. Fine as a plain description.

Sentence 1: "The dockyard clerk read through the harbourmaster's log for the week." CLAIMED. Happening: clerk reads log. Verb "read" — no shape in the shape book (press/release/hold/press-then-release). "read" is not in the book → reported "not checked". Thing lines: clerk (a person — heavy and standing? The response classes: heavy and standing (a person). Hmm, should I guess a person's response class? The list says "heavy and standing (a person)". The text doesn't say how the clerk answers a press. Rule 3: "If the text does not say how it answers a press, write 'not stated'. A class you guess is a filled-in line." A person is standardly heavy and standing, but the text doesn't say. I'll write "not stated" for the clerk to be safe. Actually the example T10D wrote "not stated" for window and letter. For people, the class list gives "heavy and standing (a person)" as the typical. But the rule says write not stated when the text doesn't say. Hmm. I could add a usual-case line: a person answers a press as heavy and standing. But that's adding. Let me just write "not stated" for all things, since the text never describes physical responses. That's safest and consistent.

Wait — but the trawler crossing the bar, the tide turning — these are physical. The trawler is a boat (heavy, loose? floating). The text doesn't state response classes. "not stated" everywhere. Good.

Things list:
- clerk (dockyard clerk): a clerk; response not stated.
- log: the harbourmaster's log for the week; response not stated. Actually "log" — a log (a record). Kind: log.
- harbourmaster: a harbourmaster; not stated.
- trawler: a trawler (a boat); not stated.
- bar: a bar (a sandbar); not stated.
- tide: the tide; not stated.
- crew: the crew; not stated.
- catch: the catch; not stated.
- boats: the boats; not stated.
- north_pier: a pier; not stated.
- repairs: repairs; not stated. Hmm, repairs as a thing — kind "repairs". OK.
- entry: the entry (rest of the entry). Kind: entry.

That's a lot of thing lines but the rule requires every thing in a happening to have a thing line. Things in happenings: clerk, log (sentence 1); trawler, bar (sentence 2, in world); boats (sentence 4, in world). The tide, crew, catch, repairs, north_pier, entry appear in facts. I'll give thing lines to the ones that appear in happenings at least, and maybe to others as they're referenced. To be thorough, give thing lines to: clerk, log, harbourmaster, trawler, bar, tide, crew, catch, boats, north_pier, entry, repairs. That's 12 thing lines. Fine.

Hmm, "the harbourmaster had written" — happening in actual? No: "In it, the harbourmaster had written that..." — the writing is reported by the log... wait, no. Sentence 2: "In it, the harbourmaster had written that the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned." "In it" = in the log. So the harbourmaster wrote in the log. Is the writing actual or told? The sentence asserts the harbourmaster wrote in the log — that's an actual claim? Hmm. "In it, the harbourmaster had written that X" — this asserts (a) the harbourmaster wrote in the log, and (b) what he wrote is X. The "what he wrote" is TOLD in harbourmaster's world (or log_world). The writing itself... The sentence's main assertion includes that the harbourmaster wrote these things in the log. 

Compare T10D: "The account says opening the window caused..." — there, "the account says" was binned as attribution and everything scoped to account_world, with the account's existence GIVEN. Here, "In it, the harbourmaster had written that..." — similarly, the harbourmaster's writing is the report vehicle. I could treat: the harbourmaster wrote in the log (CLAIMED/GIVEN actual fact), and the content TOLD in log_world.

Hmm. Actually the cleanest parallel to T10D: bin "the harbourmaster had written" as attribution scoping content to log_world; the log's existence is GIVEN (from sentence 1). But sentence 2 also asserts the harbourmaster wrote in the log — that the harbourmaster is the author. I think I can write a GIVEN/CLAIMED fact: the harbourmaster wrote in the log. And the content TOLD in log_world.

Let me structure:
- Sentence 1: CLAIMED happening: clerk reads log. Thing lines for clerk and log (actual).
- Sentence 2: GIVEN fact: harbourmaster wrote in the log (actual). TOLD in log_world: trawler crossed the bar; tide turned; crossing BECAUSE tide turned. Bin: "early" (when), "In it, the harbourmaster had written that" — hmm, if I write the writing as a fact, then the attribution is partly kept. Let me bin the "that..." complementizer? No.

Alternative simpler approach matching T10D exactly: bin "In it, the harbourmaster had written that" as the attribution, scoping all of sentence 2's content to log_world. Then in log_world: trawler crossed bar, tide turned, BECAUSE. And the harbourmaster's writing is not separately claimed. But the sentence does assert the harbourmaster wrote in the log... In T10D they binned "The account says" entirely and made the account's existence GIVEN. Here, the log's existence is already GIVEN from sentence 1. The harbourmaster's authorship — I could add a GIVEN fact "the harbourmaster wrote in the log" (filled in? it's said). Hmm, "had written" is said. I'll include it as a GIVEN fact in the actual ledger: the harbourmaster wrote in the log. Mark: said. Standing: GIVEN (it's background for the told content).

Hmm wait, is that right? Grammar clue: main clause is CLAIMED. "the harbourmaster had written that..." — the main clause is "the harbourmaster had written". So CLAIMED: harbourmaster wrote in the log. The complement is TOLD. Actually the complement content is what the writing says → TOLD in log_world. And the writing fact itself is CLAIMED (or GIVEN — it's the vehicle). I'll mark it GIVEN since it's the report vehicle, like the account's existence in T10D was GIVEN. Hmm, T10D made the account's existence GIVEN. Here sentence 1 claims the clerk read the log, which GIVEN-ly implies the log exists. The harbourmaster's writing is asserted. I'll mark it GIVEN as the report vehicle... Actually, let me mark it CLAIMED since it's the main clause of sentence 2. Hmm. But then it's an actual-world claim. Fine: CLAIMED, said.

Hmm, but wait — "In it, the harbourmaster had written that the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned." The sentence's main assertion is about what the log contains. I'll do:
- CLAIMED (actual): harbourmaster wrote in the log — said, sentence 2.
- TOLD in log_world: trawler crossed the bar — said.
- TOLD in log_world: tide turned — said.
- TOLD in log_world: line crossing BECAUSE line tide_turned — said.
- bin: "early" — when, the language has no form for time beyond order.

Sentence 3: "The log went on to record the names of the crew and the weight of the catch." 
- TOLD in log_world: the log records the names of the crew — said.
- TOLD in log_world: the log records the weight of the catch — said.
- bin: "the weight of the catch" — a quantity; no form for quantities. Hmm, or keep. I'll bin it noting quantity.
- thing lines: crew, catch (TOLD? they're things referred to in the world). Thing lines for crew and catch — standing: TOLD in log_world? The things exist in the world of the log. Hmm, crew and catch are mentioned in the log's record. I'll put their thing lines in log_world (TOLD). Actually, thing lines' standing — in T10D, window and letter thing lines were TOLD in account_world. So yes, TOLD in log_world for crew, catch, trawler, bar, tide.

Sentence 4: as decided.
- bin: "The clerk also noted" — attribution scoping content to clerk_world.
- bin: "six" — number.
- bin: "before noon" — when.
- TOLD in clerk_world: boats tied up — said.
- TOLD in clerk_world: clerk counted the boats — filled in (reading of "from her own count").
- thing line: boats — TOLD in clerk_world.

Sentence 5: "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier."
- TOLD in log_world: the rest of the entry concerns repairs due on the north pier — said. 
Hmm, or: repairs are due on the north pier (TOLD in log_world). The "concerned" is about the entry. I'll write: TOLD in log_world: the entry concerns repairs due on the north pier. And thing lines: entry (TOLD in log_world), north_pier, repairs.

Hmm, is "the rest of the entry" a thing? It's part of the log. I'll name it "rest_of_entry" or just treat "entry" as the log entry. Let me name it "entry" — the rest of the entry. Thing line: entry is an entry; not stated. Hmm, the log and the entry — same thing? The log for the week, and "the rest of the entry". The entry is presumably the log entry. I could treat entry = log. But "the rest of the entry" suggests the entry is the whole thing including what was already described. To avoid conflation, name it "entry" separately. Or actually — simpler: treat "the entry" as the log. Then sentence 5: TOLD in log_world: the log concerns repairs due on the north pier (in its remaining part). Hmm, "the rest" — a part, binned? "The rest" is a quantity-ish partition. 

Let me just do: thing line "entry" (the rest of the entry is an entry...). Hmm, clunky. Alternative: name it "rest" — no. I'll name it "entry" with kind "entry", and the fact: TOLD in log_world: the entry concerns repairs due on the north pier. And bin "the rest of" — a partitive; the language has no form for parts of things. Reasonable.

Actually, maybe simpler: don't create an entry thing; write the fact as "TOLD in log_world: repairs are due on the north pier" and bin "The rest of the entry concerned" as attribution scoping. Hmm, but "concerned" is the log's content vehicle, parallel to "went on to record". 

Let me settle: 
- bin sentence 5: "The rest of the entry concerned" — the report vehicle; scopes the content to log_world. Wait, but then nothing in the actual ledger for sentence 5 except the bin. That's OK — the content is TOLD.
- TOLD in log_world: repairs are due on the north pier — said.
- thing lines: repairs (TOLD in log_world), north_pier (TOLD in log_world).

Hmm, but for sentence 3 I kept "the log records..." as TOLD facts rather than binning "The log went on to record". Consistency: For sentence 3, "the log went on to record X" — the recording is the vehicle. I could similarly bin "The log went on to record" and TOLD the contents: "the names of the crew" and "the weight of the catch" as facts? That would be: TOLD in log_world: the crew has names?? No. The content recorded is the names and the weight. Hmm, "record the names of the crew" — the content is the crew's names (which are not given). 

I think for sentence 3, the cleanest is: TOLD in log_world: the log records the names of the crew; the log records the weight of the catch. These are facts about the log's content, TOLD in log_world (since the log's content is the told world). Wait — but if the log's content is the told world, then "the log records X" is a fact about the log, which is actual... circular. 

Let me think again about what log_world is. log_world = what the log says. In T10D, account_world = what the account says; the window, letter, opening, dryness, and the BECAUSE were all inside account_world. The account itself was a GIVEN thing in the actual ledger.

So here: log_world = what the log says. Inside log_world: the trawler crossed the bar, the tide turned, the crew's names are recorded(?), the catch's weight is recorded(?), repairs are due on the north pier. Hmm, "the log records the names of the crew" — is that a fact inside log_world or about the log? The names of the crew are content of the log. So inside log_world: the crew's names are such-and-such (not given). We can't write that. What we can write: the log records the names of the crew — that's a fact about the log, actual. But the log is a thing whose content is the told world...

OK here's the thing: the log records various items. Each recorded item is content in log_world. But "the names of the crew" — we don't know the names. So the recorded content is unspecified. The only writable fact is that the log records them. I'll write that as a TOLD-in-log_world fact? No — as an actual fact about the log? Hmm, but the log's recordings are all told content.

Pragmatic choice: write "TOLD in log_world: the log records the names of the crew" and "TOLD in log_world: the log records the weight of the catch". Even though it's slightly odd (a fact about the log inside the log's world), it keeps everything the log reports inside log_world, matching the "looked at alone" principle. Actually, hmm — the names and weight are data, not claims. The log recording them is a fact about the log. I think it's actually cleaner as an actual-world GIVEN fact: "the log records the names of the crew" — GIVEN (background, from "went on to record"). 

Ugh. Let me just decide and be consistent: The log's contents are all TOLD in log_world. "The log records the names of the crew" is a statement about the log's content, so it belongs in log_world as TOLD. Similarly for weight. And sentence 5's "the entry concerns repairs due on the north pier" → TOLD in log_world: the entry concerns repairs due on the north pier; plus the content fact: repairs are due on the north pier (TOLD in log_world).

Hmm, actually for sentence 5, "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier" — the entry concerning something is the vehicle; the content is "repairs due on the north pier". So: TOLD in log_world: repairs are due on the north pier. And bin "The rest of the entry concerned" as vehicle? Or write it as a told fact about the entry. I'll write both minimal: one TOLD fact "repairs are due on the north pier" and bin the vehicle phrase. Hmm, but then the entry thing has no line. Fine — the entry is the log; I don't need a separate thing for it. Actually "the rest of the entry" — I'll bin "the rest of the entry" as partitive.

Hmm, wait. Let me reconsider: maybe keep sentence 5's vehicle as a told fact about the log: "TOLD in log_world: the log concerns repairs due on the north pier" — no, "concerned" is about the entry, and the entry is the log. 

Decision for sentence 5:
- TOLD in log_world: repairs are due on the north pier — said, sentence 5.
- thing lines: repairs (TOLD in log_world, said), north_pier (TOLD in log_world, said).
- bin: "The rest of the entry concerned" — the report vehicle; the content is scoped to log_world; "the rest of" is a partitive the language has no form for.

Hmm, but binning the whole vehicle of sentence 5 means sentence 5's only ledger presence is the content line + bin. That satisfies "every sentence appears in the ledger, the bin, or both". Good.

Similarly for sentence 3, let me bin the vehicle? "The log went on to record" — if I bin it, then the content lines are "the names of the crew" and "the weight of the catch" — but those aren't writable as facts (names unknown, weight unknown). So I need the recording facts. OK: keep "the log records the names of the crew" and "the log records the weight of the catch" as TOLD in log_world, said. And bin "the weight of the catch" as quantity? No wait — the fact "the log records the weight of the catch" is fine; the weight value is unknown. Nothing to bin numerically. But "weight" is a quantity concept... The bin entry would be pedantic. Hmm, the guide: "How much, how fast, how hard" → bin. The weight of the catch is a quantity. But no number is given. The fact that the log records it is writable. I'll add a bin entry for "the weight of the catch" noting it's a quantity with no value stated, so only the recording is kept. That's honest and accounts for the quantity.

Hmm, actually — I realize I should also consider: is "the log went on to record" the vehicle, making the names/weight content of log_world? The names of the crew — inside log_world, the crew has names (unspecified). The weight of the catch — inside log_world, the catch has a weight (unspecified). So: TOLD in log_world: the log records the names of the crew. This is a fact about the log within its own world... 

You know what, I'll go with: these are facts about the log's content, written as TOLD in log_world, and note the reading in readings_chosen. It's a judgment call, recorded.

Alternatively — simpler and defensible: write them as GIVEN actual facts (the log records...), since "went on to record" is the narrator's report of the log's contents, and the log's existence is actual. But T10D put everything reported inside the world. The difference: T10D's "The account says X" where X is a claim. Here, "the log records the names" — the names aren't claims, they're data. 

Final decision: I'll put them TOLD in log_world, consistent with "everything the log reports is in log_world". Record the choice.

Now, sentence 2's "In it, the harbourmaster had written that..." — I said I'd write an actual fact "the harbourmaster wrote in the log". Let me reconsider: to be maximally consistent with T10D, bin the attribution "In it, the harbourmaster had written that" and scope the content to log_world. But the harbourmaster's authorship is a real claim. Hmm, T10D binned "The account says" and made the account's existence GIVEN. The parallel: bin "the harbourmaster had written", and the log's existence is GIVEN (sentence 1). The harbourmaster's authorship is not otherwise needed. But it IS asserted... 

I'll include it as a GIVEN actual fact: "the harbourmaster wrote in the log" — said, sentence 2, standing GIVEN (report vehicle, like the account's existence). And bin the complementizer "that"... no, no need to bin "that". Hmm, but the rule says bin the attribution. If I write the writing as a GIVEN fact, I've kept the attribution rather than binning it. That's also acceptable — the attribution is retained as a GIVEN fact, and the content is TOLD. The bin entry would then be unnecessary. But the guide says "Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." 

OK let me follow the guide strictly: bin "In it, the harbourmaster had written that" — reason: attribution; scopes the trawler, tide and causal claim to log_world; the writing itself is the report vehicle and is not asserted as an actual happening. Hmm, but that loses the authorship claim entirely. The guide is explicit though. And T10D did exactly this. 

But wait — there's a subtlety: in T10D, the account's existence was GIVEN. Here, the log exists (GIVEN from sentence 1, since the clerk read it). The harbourmaster wrote in it — that's authorship. If I bin it, the actual ledger never says the harbourmaster wrote the log. The log is "the harbourmaster's log" (sentence 1) — possessive implies it's his log. So GIVEN: the log is the harbourmaster's log. That covers authorship-ish. Good: sentence 1's thing line for log can say "log is the harbourmaster's log for the week". Then binning sentence 2's "had written" loses nothing essential.

Hmm, but actually — hold on. Is the writing world log_world or harbourmaster_world? "In it [the log], the harbourmaster had written that..." — the writing is in the log. So the world is the log's world: log_world. The harbourmaster is the author. TOLD in world log_world. Good, matches T10D (account_world).

Now sentence 4's world: clerk_world (the clerk's noting). Content: boats tied up. And the counting.

Let me also handle: sentence 4 "six boats had tied up before noon" — "tied up" = moored. Verb "tie up" — not in the shape book → not checked. Boats: thing. Number "six" binned, "before noon" binned.

Also "The rest of the entry" — bin "the rest of" as partitive? Or keep. I'll bin it: partitive, no form.

Now the JSON structure. Required fields: paragraph, whose, sentences, bin, leftover, whatifs, lines, words_split, readings_chosen.

Line ids: short names.

Let me draft the lines:

Actual ledger:
- clerk: Thing — clerk is a dockyard clerk; response not stated. said, s1, CLAIMED.
- log: Thing — log is the harbourmaster's log for the week; response not stated. said, s1, CLAIMED.
- read1: Happening — clerk reads the log. said, s1, CLAIMED. Prolog: hmm, happenings — how to encode? The examples don't show a happening clause. The guide's vocabulary list doesn't include a happening predicate. Hmm. "A thing line", "A fact that is claimed or given: holds(...)", etc. For a happening, maybe `holds(reads(clerk, log))`. Since there's no specific predicate, I'll use holds(...) with the verb as the functor. That seems reasonable: holds(read_through(clerk, log)).

Actually the guide says for a happening: "NAME: DOER VERB THING [DIRECTION]". No Prolog pattern given. I'll encode as holds(read_through(clerk,log)) — a fact-style encoding. Fine.

- harbourmaster: Thing — harbourmaster is a harbourmaster; response not stated. said, s2, GIVEN? Hmm, if I bin the writing, the harbourmaster as a thing... The harbourmaster is mentioned in "the harbourmaster's log" (s1) and "the harbourmaster had written" (s2, binned). The harbourmaster thing: standing GIVEN (he's the log's owner), said, sentence 1 (from "the harbourmaster's log"). Let me attach it to sentence 1.

Hmm, do I need a harbourmaster thing line? It appears as a possessive. Things in happenings need lines. The harbourmaster isn't in a happening in the actual ledger (writing binned). But rule 3 says every thing in a happening must have a thing line. The harbourmaster is in no actual happening. But it's referenced. I'll include it for completeness, standing GIVEN, sentence 1.

log_world lines (TOLD in world log_world):
- trawler: Thing — trawler is a trawler (a boat); response not stated. said, s2.
- bar: Thing — bar is a bar; response not stated. said, s2.
- tide: Thing — tide is the tide; response not stated. said, s2.
- cross: Happening/Fact — trawler crossed the bar. said, s2. holds(crossed(trawler, bar)).
- turn: Fact — the tide turned. said, s2. holds(turned(tide)).
- because2: BECAUSE — line cross BECAUSE line turn. said, s2. claim_because(because2, crossed(trawler,bar), turned(tide)).
- crew: Thing — crew is the crew; response not stated. said, s3.
- catch: Thing — catch is the catch; response not stated. said, s3.
- rec_names: Fact — the log records the names of the crew. said, s3. holds(records(log, names_of(crew))). Hmm, "names of the crew" — maybe holds(records_names(log, crew)). Let me use holds(records(log, names(crew))).
- rec_weight: Fact — the log records the weight of the catch. said, s3. holds(records(log, weight(catch))).
- repairs: Thing — repairs are repairs; response not stated. said, s5.
- north_pier: Thing — north_pier is a pier; response not stated. said, s5.
- due: Fact — repairs are due on the north pier. said, s5. holds(due_on(repairs, north_pier)).

clerk_world lines (TOLD in world clerk_world):
- boats: Thing — boats are boats; response not stated. said, s4.
- tied: Fact/Happening — boats tied up. said, s4. holds(tied_up(boats)).
- counted: Fact — the clerk counted the boats. filled in, s4. holds(counted(clerk, boats)).

Wait — should the clerk's counting be in clerk_world? The noting is the clerk's, so her count is part of her report. Yes, clerk_world. Mark "filled in" since "from her own count" implies rather than states. Hmm — actually "from her own count" does state she counted. It's a reading. I'll mark filled in and note it.

Bin entries:
- s2: "In it, the harbourmaster had written that" — attribution; scopes the trawler's crossing, the tide's turning and the causal claim to log_world; the writing is the report vehicle, not an asserted actual happening.
- s2: "early" — when; the language has no form for time beyond the order of a chain.
- s3: "went on" — order/sequence marker... hmm, "went on to record" — "went on" is just continuity. Maybe bin "The log went on to record" as vehicle? No, I kept the recording facts. Bin "went on" — sequence, no form. Eh, minor. Let me instead bin "the weight of the catch" — quantity with no value stated; only its being recorded is kept. And maybe not bin "went on". Hmm. Actually "went on" is harmless continuity; I could leave it. But "nothing is dropped silently" — anything not writable goes to bin. "went on" is sequence — writable? Not really. I'll bin it as order information. Hmm, it's pedantic but safe. Let me include: "went on" — sequence marker; the language records no order beyond a chain.
- s4: "The clerk also noted" — attribution; scopes the tied-up boats to clerk_world.
- s4: "six" — a number; no form for numbers.
- s4: "before noon" — when; no form for time.
- s4: "from her own count" — the grounds of the noting; read as the clerk counting the boats (line counted, filled in); the language has no form for evidence.
- s5: "The rest of the entry concerned" — the report vehicle; scopes the repairs to log_world; "the rest of" is a partitive with no form.

Hmm wait, for s5, if I bin "The rest of the entry concerned", then the due-on fact is TOLD in log_world. Good.

Also s1: "read through" — "through" is a direction-ish/aspect marker. "read through" vs "read" — "through" indicates completeness. Bin "through"? Eh. The happening is "clerk reads the log". "through" is aspect. I'll bin it: "through" — aspect of completeness; no form. Hmm, maybe overkill. But "nothing dropped silently". I'll include it. Actually, let me keep the bin focused on real losses. "read through" — I'll write the happening as "clerk reads the log" and bin "through" noting it marks the reading as complete, which the language cannot express. OK.

Also "for the week" — the log is for the week; temporal scope. Keep in the thing description ("the harbourmaster's log for the week") — that's a plain description, fine as a fact description. Not binned.

Also s2 "In it" — "it" = the log; handled.

What-ifs: none. words_split: none? "log" — one sense. "bar" — could be a sandbar or a drinking bar; context: harbour, so a sandbar. Not really two senses in play. "tide" — one sense. "catch" — the catch (fish) — one sense. "noted" — noted (observed) vs noted (wrote a note)? Hmm, "The clerk also noted" — could mean observed/mentally noted, or wrote down. Two readings! Let me record: "noted": mentally observed / wrote down. Chosen: mentally observed (her own count supports observation). Hmm, or "noted from her own count" — she took note. I'll split: noted_observe vs noted_write. Actually, words_split is for things needing two names. Here the same word in two senses — but only one sense is used. The guide: "When the text uses one word in two senses, give each sense its own name and record the split." The text uses "noted" in one sense. So no split needed; but a reading choice. I'll put it in readings_chosen.

Hmm, "log" — the harbourmaster's log (a record) vs a wooden log. One sense in text. No split.

"bar" — the trawler crossed the bar: a sandbar at a harbour mouth. One sense. No split. But I could note the reading in readings_chosen: "bar" read as a sandbar at the harbour entrance.

"tied up" — moored. Reading: tied up = moored (secured). Fine.

"the tide had turned" — the tide changed direction (ebb/flood). Reading: tidal direction reversed. Fine.

"crossed the bar" — went over the bar (sandbar) into/out of harbour. Fine.

Let me also double check: sentence 2's BECAUSE is inside log_world — claim_because with the world's lines. Good, matches T10D.

Also, should there be a general line? "because the tide had turned" — no general rule stated. No.

Counts: lines said: let me count.
Actual: clerk, log, read1 → 3 said.
log_world: trawler, bar, tide, cross, turn, because2, crew, catch, rec_names, rec_weight, repairs, north_pier, due → 13 said.
clerk_world: boats, tied, counted → 2 said + 1 filled in.
Total said: 3+13+2 = 18. filled in: 1 (counted). usual case: 0.

Hmm, should I add any usual-case lines? E.g., "a trawler is a boat" — the text says "trawler", which is a kind of boat. That's lexical, not a claim. Skip. "the tide" — the tide is water movement... skip. I think no usual-case lines needed. Maybe "a clerk is a person" — not needed.

Hmm, one more: sentence 1 — "The dockyard clerk read through the harbourmaster's log for the week." Also GIVEN: the log exists (implied). The thing line covers it.

Also, should read1 be a Happening with the verb "read"? "read" is not in the shape book → verb without shape, reported "not checked". I should note that in the count/verbs_without_shape? The encoding guide's JSON doesn't require verbs_without_shape (that was in T10D's extra fields). The required fields are: paragraph, whose, sentences, bin, leftover, whatifs, lines, words_split, readings_chosen. I'll add a "translation_gauge" or just include the count in... hmm, the task's section 5 asks for "The count: lines said, lines filled in, lines usual case, sentences that lost something to the bin." I'll print that as section 5 in the prose output, and can include it in JSON as an extra field. The guide says every field required unless marked optional; extra fields seem allowed (examples have extras). I'll include "translation_gauge" with the counts.

Sentences losing something to the bin: s2 (early), s3 (weight, went on), s4 (six, before noon, attribution, from her own count), s5 (vehicle, rest of). s1 (through). So all 5 sentences lose something. Count: 5.

Hmm, s1: "through" — binned. So s1 loses something. OK, 5 sentences lose to bin.

Now the Prolog clauses. Let me write them:

clerk:
kind(clerk, dockyard_clerk) :- line(clerk).
body(clerk, not_stated) :- line(clerk).

log:
kind(log, harbourmaster_log) :- line(log).
body(log, not_stated) :- line(log).

read1:
holds(reads(clerk, log)) :- line(read1).

harbourmaster:
kind(harbourmaster, harbourmaster) :- line(harbourmaster).
body(harbourmaster, not_stated) :- line(harbourmaster).

log_world lines:
trawler:
kind(trawler, trawler) :- line(trawler).
body(trawler, not_stated) :- line(trawler).

bar:
kind(bar, sandbar) :- line(bar).
body(bar, not_stated) :- line(bar).

tide:
kind(tide, tide) :- line(tide).
body(tide, not_stated) :- line(tide).

cross:
holds(crossed(trawler, bar)) :- line(cross).

turn:
holds(turned(tide)) :- line(turn).

because2:
claim_because(because2, crossed(trawler, bar), turned(tide)) :- line(because2).

crew:
kind(crew, crew) :- line(crew).
body(crew, not_stated) :- line(crew).

catch:
kind(catch, catch) :- line(catch).
body(catch, not_stated) :- line(catch).

rec_names:
holds(records(log, names(crew))) :- line(rec_names).

rec_weight:
holds(records(log, weight(catch))) :- line(rec_weight).

repairs:
kind(repairs, repairs) :- line(repairs).
body(repairs, not_stated) :- line(repairs).

north_pier:
kind(north_pier, pier) :- line(north_pier).
body(north_pier, not_stated) :- line(north_pier).

due:
holds(due_on(repairs, north_pier)) :- line(due).

clerk_world:
boats:
kind(boats, boats) :- line(boats).
body(boats, not_stated) :- line(boats).

tied:
holds(tied_up(boats)) :- line(tied).

counted:
holds(counted(clerk, boats)) :- line(counted).

Wait — clerk_world doesn't inherit the actual ledger. So `clerk` inside clerk_world — the clerk thing line is in the actual ledger, not in clerk_world. For the counted fact inside clerk_world referencing clerk... T10D's account_world didn't reference actual things. Hmm. "the clerk counted the boats" is inside clerk_world (the clerk's report). The clerk as a thing exists in the actual ledger. Since told worlds don't inherit, referencing clerk inside clerk_world might be a problem. Options: (a) put a clerk thing line inside clerk_world too; (b) drop the counted line and bin "from her own count" entirely.

Hmm. Actually, is the counting inside the noting? "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that six boats had tied up." The noting is the clerk's mental act. The count is the basis. The whole thing is the narrator's report of what the clerk noted. So the content of the noting is "six boats had tied up". The count is the grounds, part of the clerk's perspective.

Simplest and safest: bin "from her own count" entirely (grounds of the noting; no form for evidence), and keep clerk_world containing only the boats and their tying up. Then clerk_world is self-contained. That matches T10D's clean approach. I'll do that. Drop the counted line.

Revised clerk_world:
- boats: Thing — said, s4.
- tied: Fact — boats tied up — said, s4.

And bin "from her own count" — the grounds of the noting; the language has no form for evidence, and the counting is implied rather than stated as a happening.

Counts now: said = 3 + 13 + 2 = 18. filled in = 0. Hmm, zero filled-in lines. Is that OK? The task expects filled-in marks where I add things. I've added nothing — the text is straightforward reportage. Hmm, but maybe some filled-in lines would improve completeness. Let me reconsider a few:

1. Sentence 2: "the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned." The BECAUSE claims the tide's turning produced the crossing. Fine as is.

2. Should I add a general line? No.

3. Thing response classes: all "not stated" — correct per rule.

4. Maybe a filled-in line: "the trawler is a boat" — no, "trawler" already names the kind.

Hmm, what about the tide turning as a happening with a result? "the tide had turned" — verb "turn", no shape. It's a fact. Fine.

What about "crossed the bar" — direction? Crossing a bar implies moving across it. Direction "across"! The directions list includes "across". So: trawler crossed the bar, direction across? Hmm, "crossed the bar" — the trawler moved across the bar. I could write: trawler MOVES across the bar... but the verb is "cross". A happening: trawler crosses bar, direction across the bar? Hmm, "across" as a direction. Let me write the happening as "trawler crossed the bar, across the bar" — awkward. Or keep it as a fact with the verb: holds(crossed(trawler, bar)). The language's happening shape: NAME: DOER VERB THING [DIRECTION]. "trawler crossed the bar" — DOER=trawler, VERB=crossed, THING=bar. Direction optional; "cross" inherently means across. I'll leave direction off since "cross" contains it, and note nothing. Actually, to be safe, I won't add a direction.

Hmm, should I add a filled-in line for "the tide had turned" producing the crossing — no, that's the BECAUSE.

What about a missing step: the tide turned, and the trawler crossed because of it. Is there a missing link like "the turned tide let the trawler cross"? The text says the crossing was because the tide turned. No missing step needed.

OK, zero filled-in lines is acceptable if the text needs no additions. But let me double-check the "usual case" possibility: "a trawler is a boat" — the response class of a boat... not stated. Fine.

Hmm, actually one thing: sentence 4's "boats had tied up" — "tied up" to what? Not stated (no pier mentioned for them). Fine.

Another: sentence 1 — "read through the harbourmaster's log for the week" — the log is for the week. Keep in the thing line description.

I'm fairly comfortable. But maybe add one filled-in line for clarity: the log is the harbourmaster's log — that's said (s1). Fine.

Actually, wait: should sentence 2's world be named "log_world" — the harbourmaster wrote in the log. The told world = what the log says. Name: log_world. Good. And sentence 3's and 5's contents are also the log's record → same log_world. Good, consistent.

Sentence 4's world: clerk_world (what the clerk noted). Good.

Now, one concern: sentence 3's "the log records the names of the crew" — inside log_world, referencing `log` which is an actual-ledger thing. Told worlds don't inherit the actual ledger! So referencing `log` inside log_world is a problem, parallel to the clerk issue. Hmm. T10D avoided this by not referencing the account inside account_world.

Options: (a) add a log thing line inside log_world; (b) reframe the facts to not reference log: e.g., TOLD in log_world: "the names of the crew are recorded" — passive, no log reference. holds(recorded(names(crew))). And "the weight of the catch is recorded" — holds(recorded(weight(catch))). That's self-contained! And sentence 5: "repairs are due on the north pier" — already self-contained.

Hmm, but "the log went on to record" — the recorder is the log. Passive drops the actor. The guide says happenings need DOER... but these are facts, not happenings ("record" here is a recording event). Hmm, "the log went on to record the names" — the log is the doer, the names are the thing. As a happening: log records names(crew). But then log must be a thing in log_world.

Cleanest: add a `log` thing line inside log_world (TOLD). But then two things named log (one actual, one in world) — that's fine, they're in different scopes; the name is the same but they're distinct... Actually rule 2: "One name, one thing." Having log in both actual and log_world is confusing. 

Alternative: rename the world-internal log reference. Hmm.

Alternative: make the recording facts actual-world GIVEN facts about the log, not told content. "The log went on to record the names of the crew and the weight of the catch." The narrator tells us the log records these. The log is an actual thing (the clerk read it). What the log records is... its content. But names and weights are data, not claims. I think it's defensible to write these as actual GIVEN facts: "the log records the names of the crew" (GIVEN, said, s3). The log's content as data is not a "world of its own" in the same way a causal claim is. Hmm, but sentence 2's crossing/tide are also the log's content, and I put them in log_world.

Hmm, inconsistency. Let me think about what's most defensible:

Option A: Everything the log reports is in log_world, including the recordings. To keep log_world self-contained, add a log thing line inside log_world. But name clash with actual log.

Option B: log_world contains only the "inner" content (crossing, tide, BECAUSE, due repairs), and the recordings of names/weight are actual GIVEN facts about the log (since they're data the narrator reports directly, not claims inside a story).

Option C: log_world contains the inner content, and the recordings are TOLD in log_world but written without referencing log: "the names of the crew are recorded in the entry" — still references entry...

Hmm. Actually, re-reading T10D: account_world contained window, letter, opening, dry, because. The account itself was actual GIVEN. The account "says" the content. Here, the log "records" the content. The parallel: log_world = what the log says; window/letter parallels trawler/bar/tide. For the names/weight: the log records them — that's like "the account says X" where X = "the names of the crew are such-and-such". Since we don't know the names, the content is unspecified. The writable residue: the log records the names of the crew. This is a fact about the log — actual, GIVEN. 

I'll go with Option B: 
- s3: GIVEN actual: the log records the names of the crew — said.
- s3: GIVEN actual: the log records the weight of the catch — said.
- bin s3: "the weight of the catch" — a quantity; only its being recorded is kept. Hmm, or is the weight itself content? The catch's weight — inside log_world, the catch has a weight (unspecified). Not writable. Bin.

Hmm wait, but then the catch and crew thing lines — are they actual or in log_world? They're mentioned as the log's recorded data. If the recording facts are actual GIVEN, then crew and catch are things in the actual ledger (GIVEN). Hmm, but they only exist as the log's content... The clerk read the log; the log records the crew's names and the catch's weight. The crew and catch are real-world things (the trawler's crew and catch). I think GIVEN actual thing lines for crew and catch are fine — they're the things the log records.

Hmm, but sentence 2's trawler, bar, tide are also real-world things that the log reports about. Why are they in log_world but crew/catch actual? Because sentence 2 explicitly frames them as what the harbourmaster wrote (attribution), while sentence 3 frames them as what the log records (the recording is the narrator's own report of the log's data). Hmm, actually "The log went on to record the names of the crew" — the log records; that's the narrator's statement about the log. The names are the log's content. The crew is a real thing whose names are in the log.

Honestly, both treatments are defensible. Let me pick the one that keeps worlds self-contained and matches T10D's spirit:

- Sentence 2: "In it, the harbourmaster had written that X" → X is TOLD in log_world. Things trawler, bar, tide in log_world.
- Sentence 3: "The log went on to record Y and Z" → the recording is actual GIVEN (the narrator's report of the log's contents); Y and Z are data, not claims. Thing lines for crew, catch as GIVEN actual. Bin the weight as quantity.
- Sentence 5: "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier" → hmm, "concerned" — the entry's content is about repairs. Is "repairs are due on the north pier" a claim inside the log (TOLD in log_world) or an actual GIVEN fact? "The entry concerned X" — the entry is about X. This is like "the account says X"? Not quite — "concerned" is topical, not assertive. The entry's topic is repairs due on the north pier. I could write: GIVEN actual: the rest of the entry concerns repairs due on the north pier. And the content: GIVEN: repairs are due on the north pier? Hmm.

Ugh. Let me simplify sentence 5: 
- GIVEN actual: the entry concerns repairs due on the north pier — said, s5. (The entry = the log entry; thing line for entry, GIVEN.)
- Hmm, or just: GIVEN: repairs are due on the north pier — said, s5, with thing lines for repairs and north_pier.

"The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier." The main assertion: the entry's remaining content is about repairs due on the north pier. The repairs being due — is that claimed or just the topic? "concerned repairs due on the north pier" — the repairs are due (present participle describing repairs). I'll write: GIVEN: repairs are due on the north pier. And bin "The rest of the entry concerned" as the topical vehicle — actually no, if I make it GIVEN, I'm keeping it. Hmm.

Let me just decide: 
- s5: GIVEN actual: repairs are due on the north pier — said. (The narrator reports the entry's content; the content is repairs due on the north pier.)
- thing lines: repairs (GIVEN, said, s5), north_pier (GIVEN, said, s5).
- bin s5: "The rest of the entry concerned" — the entry's topical scope; "the rest of" is a partitive; the language has no form for a thing's parts or for topical scope, so the content is kept as a given fact.

Hmm, wait. But is it right that sentence 5's content is GIVEN rather than TOLD? The pattern "the entry concerned X" is a report vehicle. Under the attribution rule, it should be binned and the content TOLD in entry_world/log_world. But "concerned" isn't assertive — it's topical. The repairs being due is presented as fact within the entry's scope.

I'll treat it as TOLD in log_world to be consistent with sentence 2 (both are the log's content). Then log_world contains: trawler, bar, tide, cross, turn, because2, repairs, north_pier, due. And sentence 3's recordings as actual GIVEN about the log, with crew, catch as GIVEN actual things.

Hmm, but that's inconsistent: s2 content → log_world; s3 content → actual GIVEN; s5 content → log_world. 

Let me reconsider sentence 3 once more. "The log went on to record the names of the crew and the weight of the catch." Compare: "In it, the harbourmaster had written that the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned." 

The difference: s2 has "had written that [clause]" — a that-complement, clearly attributed content. s3 has "record [noun phrases]" — the recorded items are data, and the recording is the main verb. The narrator asserts the log records them. There's no inner claim to scope; the names and weight are just data. So actual GIVEN facts about the log are right. The crew and catch: they're the things whose names/weight are recorded — actual GIVEN things.

And s5: "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier." — "concerned" is the main verb; the topic is repairs due on the north pier. Like s3, the narrator asserts the entry's topic. The repairs being due is part of the topic description. I'll write: GIVEN actual: the rest of the entry concerns repairs due on the north pier — hmm, or break it: GIVEN: repairs are due on the north pier.

Decision for s5: 
- GIVEN actual: repairs are due on the north pier — said, s5. (The entry's remaining topic; the repairs' being due is the content kept.)
- thing: repairs — GIVEN, said, s5.
- thing: north_pier — GIVEN, said, s5.
- bin: "The rest of the entry concerned" — the topical vehicle; "the rest of" is a partitive; no form for parts or for topical scope.

And s2 stays TOLD in log_world with the attribution binned. The inconsistency is justified: s2 has an explicit "had written that" attribution with an inner causal claim; s3 and s5 are the narrator's own reports of the log's data and topics. I'll record this reading choice.

Hmm, hold on. Let me reconsider whether s2's content should be TOLD or whether the whole thing is actual. "In it, the harbourmaster had written that the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned." The narrator asserts the harbourmaster wrote this in the log. Does the narrator assert the trawler crossed the bar? Not directly — it's what the log says. So TOLD in log_world. Yes, matches T10D exactly. Good.

Now, is there anything CLAIMED in the actual ledger? Sentence 1: "The dockyard clerk read through the harbourmaster's log for the week." — main clause, CLAIMED: clerk reads log. Good, one CLAIMED line.

Sentence 3: "The log went on to record..." — main clause; the recording is asserted. CLAIMED or GIVEN? Grammar: main clause is CLAIMED. But these are background facts about the log. Rule 4: "the main clause is CLAIMED". Hmm. But the narrator is reporting the log's contents — the log's contents are the "story". T10D made the account's existence GIVEN. For s3, the recording facts — I'll mark them GIVEN (they're taken for granted along the way, background to the clerk's reading). Hmm, or CLAIMED. 

Rule 4: "Standing follows what the sentence asserts and what it takes for granted. Grammar is the usual clue: the main clause is CLAIMED; 'who', 'which', 'as', 'while' and '-ing' descriptions are GIVEN."

s3's main clause: "The log went on to record the names of the crew and the weight of the catch." That asserts the log records these. CLAIMED. But it's also the report vehicle... I'll mark CLAIMED for the recording facts (they're asserted by the main clause). Hmm, but T10D marked the account's existence GIVEN. The account's existence was implied, not asserted. Here the recording is asserted. So CLAIMED is right.

Hmm, but wait — if the recording facts are CLAIMED actual, then the log's content (names, weight) is actual data. And s2's content is TOLD. The split: s2 = attributed inner claim; s3 = narrator's own assertion about the log's data. OK.

Similarly s5: "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier." Main clause asserts the entry's topic. CLAIMED: the rest of the entry concerns repairs due on the north pier. And the repairs being due — part of the content. Hmm. If I write "repairs are due on the north pier" as CLAIMED, that's asserting the repairs are due, which the sentence only topicalizes. Safer: CLAIMED: the rest of the entry concerns repairs due on the north pier (one line, keeping the topical frame), and bin "the rest of" as partitive... but the line includes it. Hmm.

Let me write s5 as: CLAIMED: the entry concerns repairs due on the north pier — said, s5. Where "the entry" is the log entry (thing: entry). And bin "the rest of" — partitive; the line covers the entry's remaining topic. Hmm, if the line says "the entry concerns..." it drops "the rest of". I'll note in the bin that "the rest of" is dropped as a partitive.

Alternatively two lines: CLAIMED: repairs are due on the north pier (the entry's topic). Hmm.

I'll go: CLAIMED: the entry concerns repairs due on the north pier — said, s5. Thing: entry (CLAIMED, said, s5). Thing: repairs (CLAIMED? GIVEN?). Hmm, repairs and north_pier are things within the topic. Thing lines for them: standing — they're part of the claimed content. I'll mark them CLAIMED, said, s5. Hmm, or GIVEN. The things exist as the entry's topic. Let me mark thing lines as CLAIMED for s5 things (they're introduced by the main clause). Eh — thing lines' standing is always a bit arbitrary. In example_A, thing lines had no standing field in the JSON (the JSON example_A doesn't have standing!). Interesting — example_A.json lines have mark, sentence, text but no standing. But the encoding guide says standing is required. And T10D/P14 have standing. I'll include standing everywhere.

For thing lines, standing = the standing of the sentence that introduces them. clerk/log: CLAIMED (s1). harbourmaster: GIVEN (s1, possessive). trawler/bar/tide: TOLD in log_world (s2). crew/catch: CLAIMED (s3). entry/repairs/north_pier: CLAIMED (s5). boats: TOLD in clerk_world (s4).

Hmm, crew and catch — their names/weights are recorded in the log. They're introduced by s3's main clause → CLAIMED. OK.

Wait, actually, hmm: should crew/catch be in log_world? The log records their names/weight. The crew and catch are the trawler's presumably. They're real things. The recording facts are actual. So crew/catch are actual things, CLAIMED, s3. OK.

Now the happening in s1: clerk reads the log. Verb "read" — not in the shape book → "not checked". Note in the output (verbs without shape). The task's section 5 doesn't ask for verbs, but the language definition says the report carries them. The JSON guide doesn't require it. I'll mention it in the prose section 5 and in a translation_gauge field.

Also "crossed", "turned", "tied up", "records", "concerns", "read" — none are in the shape book (throw, toss, hurl, push, pull, lean on, hit, drop, let go of, open a fist on, hold, close a fist on). So all verbs are "not checked". I'll note the main ones.

Now, let me also double check the "early" bin: "the trawler crossed the bar early" — early is when. Bin: "early" — when; the language has no form for time beyond the order of a chain.

And "before noon" — when. Bin.
"six" — number. Bin.
"for the week" — kept in the log's description (the harbourmaster's log for the week). Fine, not binned.
"through" (read through) — aspect. Bin? Hmm. "read through" — I'll keep the happening as "clerk reads the log" and bin "through" noting completeness-aspect. OK.

Also "In it" — reference resolved to the log; not binned (handled by the world scoping). Fine — actually should I note it? The bin entry for "In it, the harbourmaster had written that" covers it.

Also "also" (s4) — additive; bin? "The clerk also noted" — "also" is just addition. I'll include it in the binned attribution phrase ("The clerk also noted"). Good.

Also "went on" (s3) — sequence. Bin: "went on" — sequence marker; no form for order beyond a chain.

Let me now also reconsider: should sentence 4's content be TOLD in clerk_world, or is the clerk's noting an actual mental event with actual content? Per the attribution rule: bin the attribution, content TOLD in that person's world. So boats tied up is TOLD in clerk_world. The boats — are they real? The clerk counted six boats tied up. The content is what she noted. TOLD in clerk_world. OK, matches the rule.

Hmm, but one could argue "noted" here means "observed" and the observation is actual. But the rule is explicit. TOLD in clerk_world. Good.

Now the world name: clerk_world or noting_world? I'll use "clerk_world" — "what the clerk noted". And log_world — "what the log says".

Let me write the final ledger table.

Lines (with ids):

Actual:
1. clerk | CLAIMED | clerk is a dockyard clerk; it answers a press as not stated | said | 1
2. log | CLAIMED | log is the harbourmaster's log for the week; it answers a press as not stated | said | 1
3. read | CLAIMED | clerk reads the log | said | 1
4. harbourmaster | GIVEN | harbourmaster is a harbourmaster; it answers a press as not stated | said | 1
5. rec_names | CLAIMED | log records the names of the crew | said | 3
6. rec_weight | CLAIMED | log records the weight of the catch | said | 3
7. crew | CLAIMED | crew is a crew; it answers a press as not stated | said | 3
8. catch | CLAIMED | catch is a catch; it answers a press as not stated | said | 3
9. entry | CLAIMED | entry is the rest of the log entry; it answers a press as not stated | said | 5
10. concerns | CLAIMED | entry concerns repairs due on the north pier | said | 5
11. repairs | CLAIMED | repairs are repairs; they answer a press as not stated | said | 5
12. north_pier | CLAIMED | north_pier is a pier; it answers a press as not stated | said | 5

log_world (TOLD):
13. trawler | TOLD in world log_world | trawler is a trawler; it answers a press as not stated | said | 2
14. bar | TOLD in world log_world | bar is a bar; it answers a press as not stated | said | 2
15. tide | TOLD in world log_world | tide is the tide; it answers a press as not stated | said | 2
16. cross | TOLD in world log_world | trawler crossed the bar | said | 2
17. turn | TOLD in world log_world | the tide turned | said | 2
18. because2 | TOLD in world log_world | line cross BECAUSE line turn | said | 2

clerk_world (TOLD):
19. boats | TOLD in world clerk_world | boats are boats; they answer a press as not stated | said | 4
20. tied | TOLD in world clerk_world | boats tied up | said | 4

Bin:
- s2: "In it, the harbourmaster had written that" — attribution; scopes the trawler, the bar, the tide and the causal claim to log_world; the writing is the report vehicle, not an asserted happening.
- s2: "early" — when; no form for time beyond the order of a chain.
- s3: "went on" — sequence; no form for order beyond a chain.
- s3: "the weight of the catch" — a quantity with no value stated; only its being recorded is kept.
- s4: "The clerk also noted" — attribution; scopes the tied-up boats to clerk_world.
- s4: "six" — a number; no form for numbers.
- s4: "before noon" — when; no form for time.
- s4: "from her own count" — the grounds of the noting; no form for evidence, and the counting is implied rather than stated as a happening.
- s5: "the rest of" — a partitive; no form for parts of a thing; the line covers the entry's remaining topic.
- s1: "through" (read through) — aspect of completeness; no form.

Hmm, that's a lot of bin entries; fine.

Wait — sentence 5's line 10 says "entry concerns repairs due on the north pier" — but the bin has "the rest of". The line keeps "entry concerns..." — the "rest of" is dropped. OK, noted in bin.

Also, should I bin "due"? "repairs due on the north pier" — due means scheduled/owed. It's a plain description; keep. Fine.

Words split: none. Hmm — "noted"? One sense used. "log"? One sense. "bar"? Read as a harbour bar (sandbar). "catch"? The catch (fish caught). One sense. "tide"? One. So words_split: []. But I should record the "noted" reading and "bar" reading in readings_chosen.

Readings I chose:
- Sentence 2: "the bar" — readings: a sandbar at the harbour mouth, or a drinking bar; chosen: a sandbar at the harbour mouth (the trawler crosses it with the tide).
- Sentence 2: "had written that" — readings: the narrator asserts the harbourmaster's writing as an actual happening, or it is the report vehicle scoping the inner claim; chosen: report vehicle, content TOLD in log_world, matching the attribution rule.
- Sentence 2: "because the tide had turned" — readings: the turning tide produced the crossing (BECAUSE), or it is a reason to expect the crossing (SINCE); chosen: BECAUSE — the log's own causal claim, inside log_world.
- Sentence 4: "noted" — readings: the clerk observed, or the clerk wrote a note; chosen: observed (her own count is the grounds); the noting is binned as attribution and its content scoped to clerk_world.
- Sentence 4: "from her own count" — readings: the clerk counted the boats herself (a happening), or it is only the grounds of her noting; chosen: grounds only, binned; no counting line written.
- Sentence 3: "record" — readings: the log's recording is the narrator's own assertion about the log's data, or it is attributed content inside the log's world; chosen: the narrator's assertion, CLAIMED actual, because the names and weight are data, not inner claims.
- Sentence 5: "concerned" — readings: the entry's topic is repairs due on the north pier (topical), or the entry asserts that repairs are due; chosen: topical; the line keeps the entry's concern, and "the rest of" is binned as a partitive.
- Sentence 1: "read through" — "through" read as completeness aspect; binned; the happening is clerk reads the log.

Also maybe: "tied up" — readings: moored/secured, or literally tied; chosen: moored. Add.

Count: lines said = 20, filled in = 0, usual case = 0. Sentences losing to bin: 1,2,3,4,5 → 5.

Hmm, zero filled-in lines. The task says "Mark every line you add as filled in or usual case" — I added none. That's fine for a straightforward text. But let me double check whether anything needs a filled-in line... 

One candidate: the log_world needs the tide and trawler as things — done, said. The BECAUSE — said. 

Another: sentence 2's "the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned" — is there a missing step? The tide turned → the trawler could cross. The text says the crossing was because the tide turned. No missing step needed.

Another: sentence 4 — "six boats had tied up" — the boats are in clerk_world. Fine.

I'm comfortable with 0 filled-in. Actually hold on — let me reconsider the response classes. "not stated" for everything. The trawler is a boat — a heavy loose thing on water? Not stated. OK.

Hmm, one more consideration: should `tide` have a response class? "not a body (wind, cold, heat...)" — tide is water, a body of water... not stated. Fine.

Also — the tide "turned": is that a happening with a doer? No doer; it's an event. Written as a fact: the tide turned. OK.

Now the JSON. Let me be careful with validity — the previous answer failed on a JSON error. I'll write clean JSON.

whatifs: [] (empty).

leftover: one string per bin entry.

Let me write the JSON:

{
 "paragraph": "B03",
 "whose": "<model>, under L82",
 "sentences": {"1": "...", "2": "...", "3": "...", "4": "...", "5": "..."},
 "bin": [...],
 "leftover": [...],
 "whatifs": [],
 "lines": {...},
 "words_split": [],
 "readings_chosen": [...]
}

For TOLD lines, include "case" and "case_kind".

Prolog clauses for each line. Let me write them carefully, each ending with a full stop and starting with line(id).

Also note: for thing lines, both kind and body clauses.

Let me write out:

clerk:
"kind(clerk, dockyard_clerk) :- line(clerk).",
"body(clerk, not_stated) :- line(clerk)."

log:
"kind(log, harbourmaster_log) :- line(log).",
"body(log, not_stated) :- line(log)."

read:
"holds(reads(clerk, log)) :- line(read)."

harbourmaster:
"kind(harbourmaster, harbourmaster) :- line(harbourmaster).",
"body(harbourmaster, not_stated) :- line(harbourmaster)."

rec_names:
"holds(records(log, names(crew))) :- line(rec_names)."

rec_weight:
"holds(records(log, weight(catch))) :- line(rec_weight)."

crew:
"kind(crew, crew) :- line(crew).",
"body(crew, not_stated) :- line(crew)."

catch:
"kind(catch, catch) :- line(catch).",
"body(catch, not_stated) :- line(catch)."

entry:
"kind(entry, log_entry) :- line(entry).",
"body(entry, not_stated) :- line(entry)."

concerns:
"holds(concerns(entry, repairs_due_on_north_pier)) :- line(concerns)."

Hmm, "entry concerns repairs due on the north pier" — fact term: concerns(entry, due_on(repairs, north_pier)). Let me use:
"holds(concerns(entry, due_on(repairs, north_pier))) :- line(concerns)."

repairs:
"kind(repairs, repairs) :- line(repairs).",
"body(repairs, not_stated) :- line(repairs)."

north_pier:
"kind(north_pier, pier) :- line(north_pier).",
"body(north_pier, not_stated) :- line(north_pier)."

log_world:
trawler:
"kind(trawler, trawler) :- line(trawler).",
"body(trawler, not_stated) :- line(trawler)."

bar:
"kind(bar, harbour_bar) :- line(bar).",
"body(bar, not_stated) :- line(bar)."

tide:
"kind(tide, tide) :- line(tide).",
"body(tide, not_stated) :- line(tide)."

cross:
"holds(crossed(trawler, bar)) :- line(cross)."

turn:
"holds(turned(tide)) :- line(turn)."

because2:
"claim_because(because2, crossed(trawler, bar), turned(tide)) :- line(because2)."

clerk_world:
boats:
"kind(boats, boats) :- line(boats).",
"body(boats, not_stated) :- line(boats)."

tied:
"holds(tied_up(boats)) :- line(tied)."

Wait — `tied` is a line id and also... fine.

Hmm, one issue: in clerk_world, the fact holds(tied_up(boats)) references only boats, which is in clerk_world. Self-contained. Good.

In log_world, claim_because references crossed(trawler,bar) and turned(tide), both in log_world. Self-contained. Good.

Actual ledger: rec_names references log, crew, catch — all actual. Good. concerns references entry, repairs, north_pier — all actual. Good. read references clerk, log — actual. Good.

Now the prose output: sections 1-5, then the JSON block, then TRANSLATION COMPLETE.

Also the PARKED list — the task says judgements about reasoning go in a PARKED list at the very end. I have none; I'll note "None." or just include the section with nothing. The task says "Close with: TRANSLATION COMPLETE." and the parking place is at the very end. Hmm: "Close with: TRANSLATION COMPLETE. Then wait." and PARKED "at the very end, one line each." So order: sections 1-5, JSON block, TRANSLATION COMPLETE... wait, the encoding guide says "After them, print the ledger once more as ONE JSON object... Close with: TRANSLATION COMPLETE."

Hmm, the task says close with TRANSLATION COMPLETE, and the parking place is at the very end. So: sections 1-5, JSON block, TRANSLATION COMPLETE, then PARKED? Or PARKED before TRANSLATION COMPLETE? The task says "Close with: TRANSLATION COMPLETE. Then wait." and separately "Judgements ... go in a PARKED list at the very end". I'll put PARKED after TRANSLATION COMPLETE... no wait, "close with TRANSLATION COMPLETE" means it's the last thing. Hmm, conflicting. The parking place section says "at the very end, one line each. Then return to the line in hand." I'll put PARKED as a short section after the JSON and before TRANSLATION COMPLETE, then TRANSLATION COMPLETE as the closing line. Actually, "at the very end" suggests PARKED is last. But "Close with: TRANSLATION COMPLETE" suggests that's last. 

I'll do: sections 1-5, then the JSON block, then a "Parked" list (empty/none), then TRANSLATION COMPLETE as the final line. Hmm, but the instruction order in the task: "Print your output in exactly this form: 1. The ledger... 2. The bin... 3. Words I split... 4. Readings I chose... 5. The count... Close with: TRANSLATION COMPLETE." And the parking place is described as "at the very end". Since I have nothing to park, I'll write "PARKED: none." right before TRANSLATION COMPLETE. That satisfies both reasonably.

Let me now write the ledger table in prose form.

Also double-check: every sentence appears in ledger or bin: s1 (lines 1-4 + bin "through"), s2 (log_world lines + bin), s3 (rec lines + things + bin), s4 (clerk_world lines + bin), s5 (entry/concerns/things + bin). Good.

One more check on sentence 3's thing lines: crew and catch are introduced. Also "the names of the crew" — names, a thing? The names are data; not a thing. Fine.

Let me reconsider whether to include `harbourmaster` as a thing line. It appears in "the harbourmaster's log" (s1) and "the harbourmaster had written" (s2, binned). Rule 3 requires thing lines for things in happenings. The harbourmaster is in no actual happening (writing binned). But it's referenced. I'll keep it for completeness (GIVEN, s1).

Also — the log's kind: "the harbourmaster's log for the week". I'll write: "log is the harbourmaster's log for the week". Kind atom: harbourmaster_log. Hmm, "for the week" is temporal scope — kept in the description. Fine.

Now, about the count of "sentences that lost something to the bin": all 5.

Let me write the final answer.

Actually, one more thought on sentence 4: "six boats had tied up before noon." Should the world be named for the clerk's noting? The rule: "write the content as TOLD in that person's world." World name: clerk_world. Good.

And should I add a thing line for the clerk inside clerk_world? The clerk_world contains only boats and tied_up(boats) — no clerk reference. Self-contained. Good.

Also for log_world: does it need the log? No log_world line references log. Good.

Now writing the table. Columns: Number | Standing | Content | Source mark | Sentence.

I'll use the line ids as numbers (they're names). Fine.

Let me write it all out now. Also the "whose" field: I'm an AI model; I'll write "Claude, under L82" — hmm, the guide says "<your name, the model you are>". I'll write "Claude (Anthropic), under L82".

Let me write the final output carefully, ensuring valid JSON.

Sentences verbatim:
1. "The dockyard clerk read through the harbourmaster's log for the week."
2. "In it, the harbourmaster had written that the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned."
3. "The log went on to record the names of the crew and the weight of the catch."
4. "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that six boats had tied up before noon."
5. "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier."

Note the apostrophes — fine in JSON with double quotes.

Bin entries with sentence numbers.

Let me draft the JSON fully:

{
  "paragraph": "B03",
  "whose": "Claude (Anthropic), under L82",
  "sentences": {
    "1": "The dockyard clerk read through the harbourmaster's log for the week.",
    "2": "In it, the harbourmaster had written that the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned.",
    "3": "The log went on to record the names of the crew and the weight of the catch.",
    "4": "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that six boats had tied up before noon.",
    "5": "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier."
  },
  "bin": [
    {"sentence": 1, "words": "through (read through)", "reason": "Aspect of completeness; the language has no form for it. The happening is kept as: clerk reads the log."},
    {"sentence": 2, "words": "In it, the harbourmaster had written that", "reason": "Attribution; it scopes the trawler, the bar, the tide and the causal claim to log_world. The writing is the report vehicle, not an asserted happening; the log's existence is GIVEN from sentence 1."},
    {"sentence": 2, "words": "early", "reason": "When; the language has no form for time beyond the order of a chain."},
    {"sentence": 3, "words": "went on", "reason": "Sequence marker; the language records no order beyond a chain."},
    {"sentence": 3, "words": "the weight of the catch", "reason": "A quantity with no value stated; only its being recorded is kept."},
    {"sentence": 4, "words": "The clerk also noted", "reason": "Attribution; it scopes the tied-up boats to clerk_world. The noting is the report vehicle, not an asserted happening."},
    {"sentence": 4, "words": "six", "reason": "A number; the language has no form for numbers."},
    {"sentence": 4, "words": "before noon", "reason": "When; the language has no form for time."},
    {"sentence": 4, "words": "from her own count", "reason": "The grounds of the noting; the language has no form for evidence, and the counting is implied rather than stated as a happening."},
    {"sentence": 5, "words": "the rest of", "reason": "A partitive; the language has no form for parts of a thing. The line covers the entry's remaining topic."}
  ],
  "leftover": [
    "Sentence 1: through (read through) — Aspect of completeness; the language has no form for it. The happening is kept as: clerk reads the log.",
    "Sentence 2: In it, the harbourmaster had written that — Attribution; it scopes the trawler, the bar, the tide and the causal claim to log_world. The writing is the report vehicle, not an asserted happening; the log's existence is GIVEN from sentence 1.",
    "Sentence 2: early — When; the language has no form for time beyond the order of a chain.",
    "Sentence 3: went on — Sequence marker; the language records no order beyond a chain.",
    "Sentence 3: the weight of the catch — A quantity with no value stated; only its being recorded is kept.",
    "Sentence 4: The clerk also noted — Attribution; it scopes the tied-up boats to clerk_world. The noting is the report vehicle, not an asserted happening.",
    "Sentence 4: six — A number; the language has no form for numbers.",
    "Sentence 4: before noon — When; the language has no form for time.",
    "Sentence 4: from her own count — The grounds of the noting; the language has no form for evidence, and the counting is implied rather than stated as a happening.",
    "Sentence 5: the rest of — A partitive; the language has no form for parts of a thing. The line covers the entry's remaining topic."
  ],
  "whatifs": [],
  "lines": {
    "clerk": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 1, "standing": "CLAIMED", "text": "[CLAIMED] clerk is a dockyard clerk; it answers a press as not stated", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(clerk, dockyard_clerk) :- line(clerk).", "body(clerk, not_stated) :- line(clerk)."]},
    "log": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 1, "standing": "CLAIMED", "text": "[CLAIMED] log is the harbourmaster's log for the week; it answers a press as not stated", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(log, harbourmaster_log) :- line(log).", "body(log, not_stated) :- line(log)."]},
    "read": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 1, "standing": "CLAIMED", "text": "[CLAIMED] clerk reads the log", "prolog_clauses": ["holds(reads(clerk, log)) :- line(read)."]},
    "harbourmaster": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 1, "standing": "GIVEN", "text": "[GIVEN] harbourmaster is a harbourmaster; it answers a press as not stated", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(harbourmaster, harbourmaster) :- line(harbourmaster).", "body(harbourmaster, not_stated) :- line(harbourmaster)."]},
    "trawler": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 2, "standing": "TOLD in world log_world", "text": "[TOLD in world log_world] trawler is a trawler; it answers a press as not stated", "case": "log_world", "case_kind": "told", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(trawler, trawler) :- line(trawler).", "body(trawler, not_stated) :- line(trawler)."]},
    "bar": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 2, "standing": "TOLD in world log_world", "text": "[TOLD in world log_world] bar is a harbour bar; it answers a press as not stated", "case": "log_world", "case_kind": "told", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(bar, harbour_bar) :- line(bar).", "body(bar, not_stated) :- line(bar)."]},
    "tide": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 2, "standing": "TOLD in world log_world", "text": "[TOLD in world log_world] tide is the tide; it answers a press as not stated", "case": "log_world", "case_kind": "told", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(tide, tide) :- line(tide).", "body(tide, not_stated) :- line(tide)."]},
    "cross": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 2, "standing": "TOLD in world log_world", "text": "[TOLD in world log_world] trawler crossed the bar", "case": "log_world", "case_kind": "told", "prolog_clauses": ["holds(crossed(trawler, bar)) :- line(cross)."]},
    "turn": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 2, "standing": "TOLD in world log_world", "text": "[TOLD in world log_world] the tide turned", "case": "log_world", "case_kind": "told", "prolog_clauses": ["holds(turned(tide)) :- line(turn)."]},
    "because2": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 2, "standing": "TOLD in world log_world", "text": "[TOLD in world log_world] line cross BECAUSE line turn", "case": "log_world", "case_kind": "told", "prolog_clauses": ["claim_because(because2, crossed(trawler, bar), turned(tide)) :- line(because2)."]},
    "rec_names": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 3, "standing": "CLAIMED", "text": "[CLAIMED] log records the names of the crew", "prolog_clauses": ["holds(records(log, names(crew))) :- line(rec_names)."]},
    "rec_weight": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 3, "standing": "CLAIMED", "text": "[CLAIMED] log records the weight of the catch", "prolog_clauses": ["holds(records(log, weight(catch))) :- line(rec_weight)."]},
    "crew": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 3, "standing": "CLAIMED", "text": "[CLAIMED] crew is a crew; it answers a press as not stated", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(crew, crew) :- line(crew).", "body(crew, not_stated) :- line(crew)."]},
    "catch": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 3, "standing": "CLAIMED", "text": "[CLAIMED] catch is a catch; it answers a press as not stated", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(catch, catch) :- line(catch).", "body(catch, not_stated) :- line(catch)."]},
    "boats": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 4, "standing": "TOLD in world clerk_world", "text": "[TOLD in world clerk_world] boats are boats; they answer a press as not stated", "case": "clerk_world", "case_kind": "told", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(boats, boats) :- line(boats).", "body(boats, not_stated) :- line(boats)."]},
    "tied": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 4, "standing": "TOLD in world clerk_world", "text": "[TOLD in world clerk_world] boats tied up", "case": "clerk_world", "case_kind": "told", "prolog_clauses": ["holds(tied_up(boats)) :- line(tied)."]},
    "entry": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 5, "standing": "CLAIMED", "text": "[CLAIMED] entry is the log entry; it answers a press as not stated", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(entry, log_entry) :- line(entry).", "body(entry, not_stated) :- line(entry)."]},
    "concerns": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 5, "standing": "CLAIMED", "text": "[CLAIMED] entry concerns repairs due on the north pier", "prolog_clauses": ["holds(concerns(entry, due_on(repairs, north_pier))) :- line(concerns)."]},
    "repairs": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 5, "standing": "CLAIMED", "text": "[CLAIMED] repairs are repairs; they answer a press as not stated", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(repairs, repairs) :- line(repairs).", "body(repairs, not_stated) :- line(repairs)."]},
    "north_pier": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 5, "standing": "CLAIMED", "text": "[CLAIMED] north_pier is a pier; it answers a press as not stated", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(north_pier, pier) :- line(north_pier).", "body(north_pier, not_stated) :- line(north_pier)."]}
  },
  "words_split": [],
  "readings_chosen": [
    "Sentence 2: 'the bar' — readings: a sandbar at the harbour mouth, or a drinking bar; chosen: a sandbar at the harbour mouth, which a trawler crosses with the tide.",
    "Sentence 2: 'the harbourmaster had written that' — readings: the narrator asserts the writing as an actual happening, or it is the report vehicle scoping the inner claim; chosen: report vehicle, binned, with the trawler, the tide and the causal claim TOLD in log_world.",
    "Sentence 2: 'because the tide had turned' — readings: the turning tide produced the crossing (BECAUSE), or it is only a reason to expect the crossing (SINCE); chosen: BECAUSE, as the log's own causal claim inside log_world.",
    "Sentence 3: 'record' — readings: the recording is the narrator's own assertion about the log's data, or it is attributed content inside the log's world; chosen: the narrator's assertion, CLAIMED in the actual ledger, because the names and the weight are data, not inner claims.",
    "Sentence 4: 'noted' — readings: the clerk observed, or the clerk wrote a note; chosen: observed, with her own count as the grounds; the noting is binned as attribution and its content scoped to clerk_world.",
    "Sentence 4: 'from her own count' — readings: the clerk counted the boats herself (a happening), or it is only the grounds of her noting; chosen: grounds only, binned; no counting line is written.",
    "Sentence 4: 'tied up' — readings: the boats were moored or secured, or literally tied with ropes; chosen: moored or secured, as a single happening with the verb 'tie up'.",
    "Sentence 5: 'concerned' — readings: the entry's topic is repairs due on the north pier, or the entry asserts that repairs are due; chosen: topical, so the line keeps the entry's concern and 'the rest of' is binned as a partitive.",
    "Sentence 1: 'read through' — readings: 'through' marks the reading as complete, or it is an idle particle; chosen: completeness aspect, binned; the happening is clerk reads the log."
  ]
}

Wait — one issue: in readings_chosen I use single quotes inside JSON strings — that's fine (single quotes are legal inside JSON strings).

Also the "concerns" line: "entry concerns repairs due on the north pier" — the fact term uses due_on(repairs, north_pier). Consistent.

Hmm, one thing: line `concerns` has id "concerns" and the fact term is concerns(entry, ...). Fine.

Also: should `entry` be "the rest of the log entry"? I binned "the rest of". The thing line says "entry is the log entry". OK.

Let me double check the JSON for the error that occurred before: "Expecting ',' delimiter: line 18 column 95". Probably an unescaped quote or apostrophe issue. My text has apostrophes (harbourmaster's) — fine in JSON. No double quotes inside strings. No trailing commas — I need to be careful. Let me make sure no trailing commas.

Also, in the prose table, I'll keep it readable.

One more consideration — the task says section 5: "The count: lines said, lines filled in, lines usual case, sentences that lost something to the bin." I'll report: said 20, filled in 0, usual case 0, sentences losing to bin 5.

Hmm, 20 said lines. Let me recount: clerk, log, read, harbourmaster (4), trawler, bar, tide, cross, turn, because2 (6 → 10), rec_names, rec_weight, crew, catch (4 → 14), boats, tied (2 → 16), entry, concerns, repairs, north_pier (4 → 20). Yes, 20 said, 0 filled in, 0 usual case.

Also note verbs without shape: read, cross, turn, tie up, record, concern — none in the shape book. I'll list them in section 5 as a note (the language definition says the report carries verbs with no shape; harmless extra).

Alright. Also the PARKED list: none.

Let me write the final answer now.