Let me translate this text into the ledger language following all the rules.

First, let me number the sentences:

1. The governors' minutes recorded the head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance.
2. She said attendance had risen because the new bus route now reached the estate.
3. The minutes noted that the school had also repainted the entrance hall over the summer.
4. Later in the meeting, she said she did not think the rise in attendance was because of the new bus route.
5. The governors moved on to discuss the canteen budget.

Now let me think about the structure.

Sentence 1: "The governors' minutes recorded the head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance." — This is an attribution. The minutes record something. The content is the head teacher's explanation. This is a report/note — TOLD in a named world. Actually, "the minutes recorded" — the minutes are a document. What the minutes say is TOLD in a world (minutes_world). But then sentence 2 says "She said..." which is the head teacher speaking at the meeting (or in the explanation recorded in the minutes).

Hmm, let me think carefully. The structure: the minutes recorded the head teacher's explanation. Then sentence 2: "She said attendance had risen because the new bus route now reached the estate." This is what she said — it's reported speech. Then sentence 3: "The minutes noted that the school had also repainted the entrance hall over the summer." — again the minutes note something. Sentence 4: "Later in the meeting, she said she did not think the rise in attendance was because of the new bus route." — she said something else, later in the meeting.

So there's a meeting, minutes of the meeting, and the head teacher's statements. The statements are reported speech. Per the rules: "What a story, a report, a note or a dream says is TOLD, in a named world of its own."

The minutes are a report → TOLD in world "minutes". The head teacher's explanation is recorded in the minutes, and she said things at the meeting.

Actually, let me consider: sentence 1 says the minutes recorded her explanation. Sentence 2 gives the content of what she said. Sentence 3 says the minutes noted the repainting. Sentence 4 says later in the meeting she said she did not think the rise was because of the bus route.

So the whole thing is a report of what happened at a meeting and what the minutes recorded. The head teacher's statements are TOLD in a world — let's call it "meeting" (what was said at the meeting). Actually the minutes are the report; the head teacher's explanation is what the minutes record.

Let me structure it:

- The minutes are a document (GIVEN, thing line).
- The head teacher is a person (GIVEN, thing line).
- The governors are a group (GIVEN, thing line).
- The school is a thing (GIVEN).
- Attendance is a thing (a rate/measure).
- The new bus route is a thing.
- The estate is a place/thing.
- The entrance hall is a thing.
- The canteen budget is a thing.

Sentence 1: "The governors' minutes recorded the head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance."

This asserts: the minutes exist, they recorded the explanation. The explanation is for the rise in attendance. The "rise in attendance" is mentioned as the thing explained.

Per the rules on attribution: "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." So "the minutes recorded" is an attribution — the content goes to a TOLD world.

So: bin the attribution "The governors' minutes recorded" — the recording is the attribution. The content: "the head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance" — hmm, but the explanation itself is an attribution (she explains). Actually sentence 2 gives the content of the explanation.

Let me think about what's claimed in the actual ledger:
- Sentence 1 claims: the minutes recorded the explanation. In the actual ledger, this is a fact about the minutes. But per the rules, what a report says is TOLD. So the minutes' content is TOLD in world "minutes".

Actually, I think the cleanest reading: The whole text is a report of a governors' meeting. The minutes recorded things. The head teacher said things. All reported content is TOLD.

But wait — is the narrator asserting that attendance rose? Sentence 2: "She said attendance had risen because the new bus route now reached the estate." The narrator reports what she said. The content is TOLD in the head teacher's world. The narrator does not assert attendance rose.

Hmm, but there's a subtlety: "the rise in attendance" in sentence 1 is presupposed (GIVEN) — it takes for granted that there was a rise. Actually "the rise in attendance" is a definite description, presupposing a rise. But it's inside the recorded explanation. Hmm.

Let me be careful. Sentence 1: "The governors' minutes recorded the head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance." The narrator asserts: the minutes recorded the explanation. The "rise in attendance" is presupposed by the definite description "the rise in attendance". So GIVEN: attendance rose. Actually, is it? The explanation is "for the rise" — the rise is the thing explained. The existence of the rise is presupposed by the narrator (using "the"). So GIVEN: there was a rise in attendance.

Hmm, but actually the head teacher's explanation might be that attendance rose. Let me think. "her explanation for the rise in attendance" — she explains why attendance rose. So the rise is taken as given by the narrator.

Sentence 2: "She said attendance had risen because the new bus route now reached the estate." Content of her statement: attendance had risen (fact in her told world), the new bus route now reached the estate (fact in her told world), and the rise BECAUSE the route reaches the estate (causal claim in her told world).

Sentence 3: "The minutes noted that the school had also repainted the entrance hall over the summer." The minutes noted — attribution again. Content: the school repainted the entrance hall over the summer. This is TOLD in the minutes' world. "over the summer" — when, goes to bin (time beyond order). "also" — just a connective.

Sentence 4: "Later in the meeting, she said she did not think the rise in attendance was because of the new bus route." She said she did not think... — this is her stating a belief/denial. The content: NOT [the rise in attendance was because of the new bus route]. This is TOLD in her world. "Later in the meeting" — ordering info, goes to bin (when).

Actually wait — is sentence 4 in the minutes or at the meeting? "Later in the meeting, she said..." — this is the narrator reporting what she said at the meeting. It might or might not be in the minutes. The narrator says she said it later in the meeting. So it's reported speech at the meeting. I'll put it in the same told world as her statement in sentence 2 — the meeting world. Actually, sentence 1 says the minutes recorded her explanation; sentence 2 is presumably the content of that explanation (as recorded in the minutes). Sentence 4 is "later in the meeting" — she said something else. Is sentence 4 in the minutes? Not explicitly said. The narrator reports it directly.

Hmm, this is getting complex. Let me simplify: there's one told world for what was said at the meeting (by the head teacher) — call it "meeting". And the minutes recorded things. Actually, the minutes are the record of the meeting. So what the minutes recorded = what happened at the meeting (approximately).

Option A: One told world "meeting" containing everything reported as said/noted. The minutes' noting and her saying are both reports of meeting content. But the minutes might not record sentence 4 (she said it later, but the narrator tells us, not necessarily via minutes).

Actually, the narrator is our source. The narrator tells us: minutes recorded X (sentence 1-2), minutes noted Y (sentence 3), and she said Z later (sentence 4). The narrator is reporting all of this. So actually the whole text is a report, and everything in it is TOLD in the narrator's report world? No — the narrator's own assertions are CLAIMED in the actual ledger. The narrator claims: the minutes recorded her explanation; the minutes noted the repainting; she said she didn't think it was the bus route.

So in the actual ledger:
- CLAIMED: the minutes recorded the head teacher's explanation (a fact about the minutes).
- CLAIMED: the minutes noted the repainting.
- CLAIMED: she said she did not think... (at the meeting, later).

And the contents of what was recorded/said are TOLD in the appropriate worlds.

Hmm, but per the guide: "Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." So for "She said attendance had risen because...", bin "she said", and write the content as TOLD in her world.

But there are two layers: the minutes recorded her explanation (sentence 1), and she said the explanation (sentence 2). The minutes' recording is itself an attribution. So:

Sentence 1: bin "The governors' minutes recorded" (attribution). Content: "the head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance" — this is itself an attribution (her explaining). So this also goes to bin, and the content of the explanation is TOLD in her world. But the explanation's content isn't given until sentence 2.

Actually, I think the cleanest approach:

The head teacher's statements (sentences 2 and 4) are TOLD in world "headteacher" (or "meeting"). The minutes' noting (sentence 3) is TOLD in world "minutes".

Wait, but sentence 1 says the minutes recorded her explanation — and sentence 2 is the explanation. So sentence 2's content is what the minutes recorded, which is what she said. So it's TOLD in a world that is both. Let me just use one world "meeting" for what was said at the meeting (her explanation, her later statement), and note that the minutes recorded it. And sentence 3's repainting is noted by the minutes — TOLD in world "minutes".

Hmm, but actually the minutes are the record of the meeting, so "minutes" world and "meeting" world could be the same. But sentence 4 — "Later in the meeting, she said..." — the narrator reports this directly; it's not necessarily in the minutes. But it's still reported speech at the meeting.

Let me simplify to two told worlds:
- world "minutes": what the minutes recorded/noted (sentences 1-3 content).
- Actually sentence 4 is at the meeting but reported by the narrator directly.

Alternatively, one world "meeting" for everything the head teacher said, and the minutes' own noting (the repainting) as TOLD in world "minutes".

Let me go with:
- World "meeting" (what was said at the governors' meeting): the head teacher's explanation content (sentence 2) and her later statement (sentence 4).
- World "minutes" (what the minutes recorded): the repainting (sentence 3). And the fact that the minutes recorded her explanation (sentence 1) — that's the actual-ledger claim.

Hmm, wait. Actually, is sentence 2 the content of the explanation recorded in the minutes, or is it the narrator telling us what she said at the meeting? "She said attendance had risen because..." — the narrator reports her speech. It could be read as the narrator's direct report of her statement at the meeting (which the minutes recorded). Either way, the content is TOLD in her world.

I'll use one told world for her statements: "headteacher" — no wait, the rules say "TOLD in world NAME" where the world is the story/report/note's own world. Her statements are reported speech. Let me call the world "meeting" — what was said at the meeting.

Actually, let me reconsider. The text structure:
- Sentence 1: minutes recorded her explanation (for the rise).
- Sentence 2: she said [explanation content].
- Sentence 3: minutes noted [repainting].
- Sentence 4: later in the meeting, she said [retraction of the bus route explanation].
- Sentence 5: governors moved on to discuss the canteen budget.

Sentence 5: "The governors moved on to discuss the canteen budget." — this is a claim about what the governors did (moved on, to discuss). "moved on to discuss" — is this a happening? The governors (a group) moved on (to discuss). Hmm. "moved on" here is figurative — they proceeded to the next agenda item. And "to discuss the canteen budget" — purpose. This is a plan-ish thing: they moved on SO THAT they could discuss the canteen budget? Or "moved on to discuss" = they began discussing.

Actually "moved on to discuss X" means they proceeded to the next item, which was discussing X. So: the governors moved on (to the next item), and then discussed the canteen budget. Hmm, but "discuss" isn't necessarily completed. Let me write: the governors moved on to the canteen budget discussion. Actually, let me keep it simple: happening — governors MOVED ON (proceeded) — and the goal: discuss the canteen budget. Or: the governors discussed the canteen budget after moving on.

Hmm, "moved on" is a bit figurative. The plain fact: the governors went on to discuss the canteen budget. Let me write it as: the governors discussed the canteen budget (happening), and the "moved on" as... hmm.

Actually, let me think about what's committed. "The governors moved on to discuss the canteen budget." The plain facts: (a) the governors moved on (proceeded to the next matter), (b) the next matter was the canteen budget, (c) they discussed it (or were going to). The "moved on" is a figure for proceeding. I could bin "moved on" as a figure of speech and write: the governors discussed the canteen budget. But "moved on" also conveys sequence (after the attendance discussion). Sequence/order is fine to keep as order in a chain? The rules say "When, beyond the order of a chain" goes to bin. So the ordering ("later", "moved on" implying after) — the order of events is fine to note via links, but specific timing goes to bin.

Let me handle "moved on": it's figurative for "proceeded to the next agenda item". The plain fact: the governors discussed the canteen budget next. I'll write a happening: governors DISCUSSED canteen budget, and bin "moved on" as a figure for proceeding to the next item (or keep it as "the governors went on to the canteen budget"). Hmm.

Actually, maybe simpler: treat "moved on to discuss" as: the governors discussed the canteen budget. And "moved on" indicates they finished with attendance — that's implied. I'll write:

- governors is a group; thing line.
- canteen budget is a budget; thing line.
- happening: governors DISCUSSED canteen budget. Mark said.

And bin "moved on" — figure of speech for proceeding to the next item; the image of physical movement is not literal. Actually "moved on" is a mild figure. Per the rules: "Figures of speech, irony, tone. Write as lines the plain facts the sentence still states. Send the image itself to the bin with a one-line note saying what the image is." The plain fact: they proceeded to discuss the canteen budget. The image: physical movement. So bin "moved on" as a figure.

Hmm, but is "moved on" really a figure worth binning? It's so common. But the rules say figures go to the bin. "Moved on" = proceeded. The plain fact stated: they went on to discuss the canteen budget. I'll write the line as "governors DISCUSSED canteen budget" and bin "moved on" noting it's a figure for proceeding to the next item of business, no physical movement committed.

Alternatively, keep "moved on" as the verb and note it. But "move" has a shape in the shape book? Move isn't in the verb shape list (press, release, hold, press then release; throw/toss/hurl, push/pull/lean on/hit, drop/let go of/open a fist on, hold/close a fist on). "Move" isn't listed. Hmm, the shape book lists which shape each verb has — the listed ones. "Move" is not listed, so it would be "not checked". Actually for people/groups, only causal words are tested. The governors are a group (people). So the happening's verb shape isn't tested for people anyway? "For people, groups and rules, only the causal words are tested."

OK here's my plan. Let me also handle "discuss" — discuss isn't in the shape book either. It would be "not checked". Fine.

Now, the key interesting part of this text: the head teacher first says attendance rose BECAUSE the bus route reaches the estate (sentence 2), then later says she does NOT think the rise was because of the bus route (sentence 4). This is a denied BECAUSE inside her told world — she claims and denies the same cause. That's the checker's "You deny a cause that your own lines supply" finding, inside a told world.

Wait, but sentence 4 is "she said she did not think the rise in attendance was because of the new bus route." So in her world (the meeting world), there's a claim_because (sentence 2) and a denied_because (sentence 4) for the same pair. That's exactly the "writer claims and denies the same cause" situation, but inside a told world. Per L80: "Every check the checker makes of commitments is asked inside the world... contradiction, BECAUSE, SINCE, ... a denied BECAUSE." So inside the meeting world, the denied BECAUSE and the claimed BECAUSE coexist → finding.

Hmm wait, but are they in the same world? Sentence 2 is her explanation (recorded in minutes). Sentence 4 is "later in the meeting, she said...". Both are her statements at the meeting. If I put both in the same told world "meeting", then the world contains both the BECAUSE claim and its denial. That's the interesting finding.

But hold on — is sentence 2 in the minutes world and sentence 4 in a separate "later at meeting" world? If they're in different worlds, they don't interact. But narratively, they're both things she said at the same meeting. The minutes recorded her explanation (sentence 1); sentence 4 is "later in the meeting, she said..." — the narrator reports this, and it's at the same meeting. I think they belong in the same world: what was said at the meeting. The minutes are the record of the meeting. So world "meeting" contains: her explanation (attendance rose because bus route), the minutes' noting of repainting, and her later statement (not because of bus route).

Hmm, but the repainting was "noted by the minutes" — is that part of the meeting world? The minutes noted it; it's a fact the minutes record. It's TOLD in the minutes' world. If the minutes' world = the meeting world, then the repainting is in the meeting world too.

Let me just use ONE told world: "meeting" — what was said and recorded at the governors' meeting. Everything reported (her explanation, the minutes' noting, her later statement) is TOLD in world "meeting". That keeps the denial and the claim in the same world, which is where the interesting finding is.

Actually wait, I need to double check: should sentence 1's "the minutes recorded" and sentence 3's "the minutes noted" produce actual-ledger CLAIMED facts (the minutes recorded/noted these things)? Per the rules: "Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." So the attribution ("the minutes recorded", "the minutes noted", "she said") goes to the bin, and the content is TOLD. So I don't write actual-ledger claims like "the minutes recorded the explanation" — I bin the attribution and write the content as TOLD.

Hmm, but then what is CLAIMED in the actual ledger? Let me re-read: "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world."

So for reported speech, the attribution is binned and content is TOLD. OK. So the actual ledger will have very few CLAIMED lines — mostly thing lines (GIVEN) and the TOLD lines.

Wait, but what about sentence 5 (governors moved on to discuss)? That's not reported speech — it's the narrator's own statement about what happened. So that's CLAIMED in the actual ledger.

And sentence 1: "The governors' minutes recorded the head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance." The attribution "the minutes recorded" → bin. The content: "the head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance". The explanation is itself an attribution (she explains). Its content is given in sentence 2. So sentence 1's content is essentially "she explained the rise" — which is again an attribution. I'll bin the whole attribution chain and record the content as TOLD.

Hmm, but there's also the presupposition: "the rise in attendance" — the rise exists. Is that GIVEN in the actual ledger? The narrator presupposes a rise in attendance. Actually, the rise is within the reported content — "her explanation for the rise in attendance" — the rise is the thing she explains. The narrator's use of "the rise" presupposes there was a rise. So GIVEN: attendance rose. Hmm, but is that right? The narrator says "the rise in attendance" as if it's a real thing. Yes, I'd say GIVEN: attendance rose (in the actual ledger, since the narrator presupposes it).

Hmm, wait. But actually the whole thing is about what the minutes recorded and what she said. The "rise in attendance" is mentioned as the topic of the explanation. The presupposition that attendance rose is the narrator's. I'll mark it GIVEN in the actual ledger. Actually, let me reconsider — is it GIVEN or is it part of the told content? "The head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance" — the narrator refers to "the rise in attendance" definitively, presupposing it. So GIVEN: attendance rose. I'll include it as GIVEN, said.

Hmm, but then in sentence 2, "attendance had risen" is TOLD (she said it). And in sentence 4, "the rise in attendance" again presupposed. OK.

Actually, let me reconsider whether the rise is GIVEN in the actual ledger. The narrator is reporting on the minutes and the meeting. The narrator says "the rise in attendance" — taking it as real. I think GIVEN is right. But one could argue the narrator is just reporting the topic. I'll note this as a reading choice. Let me mark it GIVEN with a note, since the definite description presupposes it.

Hmm, actually, hold on. Let me reconsider. If the narrator says "the head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance", the narrator commits to there being a rise in attendance (that's what the explanation is for). Yes, GIVEN.

Now the things:
- governors: a group. Response to a press: not stated (groups of people — heavy and standing? The response classes: fixed, heavy and standing (a person), heavy and loose, light and loose, not a body, not stated. For a group of people, "heavy and standing" might apply, but the text doesn't say. I'll write "not stated". Actually, for people, the class "heavy and standing (a person)" is listed. The governors are a group of people. But the text doesn't state how they answer a press. Rule 3: "If the text does not say how it answers a press, write 'not stated'." So "not stated".
- minutes: a record/document. Kind: minutes (a record). Response: not stated.
- head teacher: a person. Kind: head_teacher (a person). Response: not stated? For a person, the class is "heavy and standing". But the text doesn't say. Hmm, the response classes list "heavy and standing (a person)" as the class for a person. Should I assign it? The rule says write "not stated" if the text doesn't say. But the language definition says the response classes are: "heavy and standing (a person)". It's the default for a person. Hmm. The rule: "Where the text is silent on how a thing answers a press, write 'not stated'." The text is silent. But a person is by default heavy and standing... Actually I think for a person, writing "heavy and standing" would be a "usual case" filled-in thing. The safest: write "not stated" for all, since the text is silent. But the example T10D writes "not stated" for window and letter. And example A doesn't include body lines at all (older format). Let me write "not stated" for everything, since the text never describes how anything responds to a press. That's the rule: text silent → not stated.

Wait, but actually — hmm, for the head teacher (a person), is it a "usual case" that a person is heavy and standing? The response class list says "heavy and standing (a person)". I think that's the language's default for a person. But rule 3 says if the text doesn't say, write "not stated". I'll write "not stated" and note in readings that a person would ordinarily be heavy and standing but the text is silent. Actually, to keep it simple and rule-following: "not stated" everywhere. Hmm, but the "usual case" mark exists for "something everyone assumes". A person being heavy and standing is something everyone assumes. I could write it as "usual case". But it's not needed for this text (no presses happen). Let me just write "not stated" for all things. That's cleanest and follows rule 3 exactly.

Actually, let me reconsider — do I even need body/response for things that are never pressed? Rule 3: "Every thing in a happening must have a thing line of its own." The things in happenings: governors (discussed), and in the told world: the bus route (reached), the school (repainted), the head teacher (said). So I need thing lines for: governors, head teacher, minutes, attendance, bus route, estate, school, entrance hall, canteen budget. And the rise (a fact, not a thing). Let me list the things:

1. governors — a group
2. minutes — a record (of the meeting)
3. head_teacher — a person
4. attendance — a measure/rate at the school
5. bus_route — a bus route (a service)
6. estate — a place
7. school — a school
8. entrance_hall — a room/hall
9. canteen_budget — a budget

Happenings:
- In the actual ledger: governors DISCUSSED canteen_budget (sentence 5). Hmm, "moved on to discuss" — I'll write the happening as "governors MOVED ON to discussing the canteen budget"? Or split. Let me think again.

"The governors moved on to discuss the canteen budget." Plain facts: the governors proceeded to the next matter and discussed the canteen budget. I'll write:
- happening: governors DISCUSSED canteen_budget (said, CLAIMED, sentence 5).
- bin "moved on": figure for proceeding to the next item of business; no physical movement committed.

Hmm, but "moved on to discuss" might also be read as "moved on" = "went on" = began discussing. The plain fact is they discussed the canteen budget. I'll keep the happening and bin the figure.

Actually, alternatively: "moved on" could be kept as the verb with direction? No, it's not physical. Bin it.

In the told world (meeting):
- head_teacher EXPLAINED rise in attendance (sentence 1-2)? Or her statement: "attendance had risen because the new bus route now reached the estate."
- The minutes NOTED the repainting (sentence 3): school REPAINTED entrance_hall.
- head_teacher SAID [not because] (sentence 4).

Let me write the told-world lines:

World "meeting":
- attendance rose (fact) — TOLD, said, sentence 2. Actually "attendance had risen" — she said it. holds(rose(attendance)).
- bus_route now reached the estate — TOLD, said, sentence 2. holds(reaches(bus_route, estate)). Hmm, "now reached" — the route reaches the estate (its route extends to the estate). "reached" here means the route serves/extends to the estate. It's not a physical touching. Hmm. "the new bus route now reached the estate" — the route now extends as far as the estate. I'll write: bus_route REACHED estate (using the text's verb "reached"). But "reach" as touching? The result kind has TOUCHES. But here "reached" means "extended to / served". It's a fact: the bus route reaches the estate. I'll write it as a fact: holds(reaches(bus_route, estate)) — the route serves the estate. And note in readings that "reached" is read as "extends to/serves", not physical touching.

Hmm, or should I treat "the new bus route now reached the estate" as a happening: bus_route REACHED estate? The verb "reach" — in the shape book? Not listed. So "not checked". For a bus route (not a body), the checker says "cannot tell" for physical happenings anyway. I think writing it as a fact is cleaner: "bus route reaches the estate" (a fact about the route's extent). Let me write it as a Fact line: "bus_route reaches the estate" — TOLD, said, sentence 2.

- The BECAUSE claim: line [attendance rose] BECAUSE line [bus route reaches estate] — TOLD, said, sentence 2. claim_because(b2, rose(attendance), reaches(bus_route, estate)).

Wait, but the cause she gives is "the new bus route now reached the estate" — the fact that the route reaches the estate. And the effect: attendance rose. So claim_because(attendance_rose, route_reaches_estate). Good.

- school repainted entrance_hall — TOLD, said, sentence 3. Happening: school REPAINTED entrance_hall. Or fact: entrance_hall was repainted by the school. The minutes noted that the school had repainted the entrance hall. I'll write: school REPAINTED entrance_hall (happening, TOLD, said, sentence 3). And "over the summer" → bin (when).

- NOT [the rise in attendance was because of the new bus route] — TOLD, said, sentence 4. denied_because(b4, rose(attendance), reaches(bus_route, estate)).

Wait — sentence 4: "she did not think the rise in attendance was because of the new bus route." The content: NOT [rise BECAUSE bus route]. So denied_because. And this is in the same world "meeting" as the claim_because in sentence 2. So the world has both → the checker will report "you deny a cause that your own lines supply" inside the world.

Hmm wait, but is sentence 4 in the same world as sentence 2? Sentence 2 is the explanation recorded in the minutes. Sentence 4 is "later in the meeting, she said...". Both are her statements at the meeting. The world "meeting" = what was said at the meeting. Yes, same world. Good — that's the point of the text: she first gives the bus route as the cause, then denies it.

But hold on — should sentence 2's content be in "meeting" world or "minutes" world? Sentence 1: the minutes recorded her explanation. Sentence 2: she said [the explanation]. The minutes are the record of the meeting. I'll treat it all as one world "meeting" (what was said and recorded at the governors' meeting). The attributions ("the minutes recorded", "the minutes noted", "she said") all go to the bin.

Hmm, but wait: is the repainting part of the meeting (said at the meeting) or just in the minutes? "The minutes noted that the school had also repainted..." — the minutes record it. It's TOLD in the minutes' world. If minutes world = meeting world, fine. The repainting is a fact the minutes record. I'll put it in world "meeting" too, since the minutes are the record of the meeting. Actually hmm, the minutes "noted" the repainting — this is the minutes recording a fact (not necessarily something said at the meeting). But it's still the minutes' content. If I use one world "meeting" for all reported content, the repainting is in it. That's fine — a told world can contain facts the report states.

Actually, let me reconsider using two worlds: "minutes" (what the minutes recorded: her explanation, the repainting) and... no, sentence 4 is at the meeting but the narrator reports it directly, not via the minutes. Hmm. If sentence 4 is in a different world from sentence 2, the claim and denial don't clash. But narratively, she said both at the same meeting. The most faithful reading: one world for the meeting (including what the minutes recorded of it). I'll use one world: "meeting".

Wait, actually, let me reconsider once more. The text: "The governors' minutes recorded the head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance. She said attendance had risen because the new bus route now reached the estate. The minutes noted that the school had also repainted the entrance hall over the summer. Later in the meeting, she said she did not think the rise in attendance was because of the new bus route."

The narrator is telling us about the meeting and the minutes. Everything reported: her explanation (via minutes), the repainting (via minutes), her later statement (narrator's direct report). All of it is reported content about one meeting. One told world "meeting". The attributions go to the bin. 

Now, in the actual ledger:
- GIVEN: attendance rose (presupposed by "the rise in attendance"). Hmm — wait, is this presupposition in the actual ledger or in the reported content? The narrator says "the rise in attendance" — the narrator presupposes it. So GIVEN in the actual ledger. But hmm, one could argue the narrator is just reporting the topic of the explanation. Let me think about the difference it makes: if GIVEN in the actual ledger, then the actual ledger contains "attendance rose". If not, only the told world contains it.

The narrator's own words: "the head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance" and later "the rise in attendance" (sentence 4, but that's inside her reported speech — "she did not think the rise in attendance was because of..." — there "the rise" is her presupposition, inside the told world). In sentence 1, "the rise in attendance" is the narrator's presupposition. So GIVEN in the actual ledger: attendance rose. I'll include it, marked GIVEN, said, sentence 1. And note the reading choice.

Hmm, actually, wait. Let me reconsider. Is the narrator committed to the rise being real? "The head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance" — the narrator says there is a rise and the head teacher explained it. Yes, the narrator is committed. GIVEN: attendance rose. OK.

Also GIVEN: the minutes exist, the head teacher exists, the governors exist, the school exists, etc. — these are presupposed by the definite descriptions. Thing lines handle existence.

Now sentence 5: "The governors moved on to discuss the canteen budget." CLAIMED in the actual ledger: the governors discussed the canteen budget. And "moved on" binned as a figure. Also "the canteen budget" presupposes the budget exists — thing line.

Wait, also: is there a "canteen"? "the canteen budget" — a budget for the canteen. The canteen is mentioned only as a modifier. I'll name the thing "canteen_budget" (a budget). No separate canteen thing needed — the budget is the thing discussed. Fine.

Let me also double check sentence 3's "also" and "over the summer": "also" is a connective (bin or ignore — it just adds the repainting to the list of things noted; I'll bin "also" as a connective of addition, or just not mention it. Actually "also" doesn't commit to anything; I can drop it silently? No — "Nothing is dropped silently." But "also" is not content that needs a line; it's a discourse connective. Hmm. The safest: bin "also" — but that seems excessive. Actually, "also" just marks that this is an additional item in the minutes. It doesn't add content. I think I can note it in the bin with the "over the summer" entry, or skip. Let me bin "over the summer" (when) and mention "also" there too? No — let me just bin "over the summer" and treat "also" as part of the noting (no separate content). Hmm, "Nothing is dropped silently" — but "also" isn't a commitment; it's a connective. I'll include it in the bin entry for sentence 3's noting, or just note it in readings. Let me put it in the bin: "also — a connective marking this as an additional item in the minutes; no separate content." Actually, I'll combine: bin entry for sentence 3: words "also; over the summer" — reasons: "also" is a connective of addition with no separate content; "over the summer" is when, outside the language. That works.

Hmm, actually "also" might imply the repainting is another thing the minutes recorded, in addition to the explanation. That's just the structure. Fine.

Sentence 4: "Later in the meeting" — when, bin. "she did not think" — attribution of belief → bin; content is TOLD.

Sentence 1: "The governors' minutes recorded" — attribution → bin. "the head teacher's explanation for" — attribution → bin. Content TOLD.

Sentence 2: "She said" — attribution → bin. Content TOLD.

Sentence 5: "moved on" — figure → bin.

Now let me also think: does the actual ledger have any CLAIMED content lines besides the governors discussing? Let me see:
- Sentence 1: attribution binned; GIVEN: attendance rose (presupposition). Also GIVEN: the minutes, the head teacher exist (thing lines).
- Sentence 2: attribution binned; content TOLD.
- Sentence 3: attribution binned; content TOLD.
- Sentence 4: attribution binned; content TOLD. "Later in the meeting" binned.
- Sentence 5: CLAIMED: governors discussed canteen budget. "moved on" binned.

So the actual ledger: thing lines (GIVEN), the fact "attendance rose" (GIVEN), the happening "governors discussed canteen budget" (CLAIMED), and the told world lines.

Hmm, wait — should "attendance rose" be GIVEN in the actual ledger, or should it be TOLD in the meeting world only? Let me reconsider. In sentence 2, "attendance had risen" is what she said → TOLD. In sentence 1, "the rise in attendance" is the narrator's presupposition → GIVEN in actual ledger. Both exist. The GIVEN one is the narrator's commitment. OK, I'll keep both: GIVEN "attendance rose" (sentence 1) in the actual ledger, and TOLD "attendance rose" (sentence 2) in the meeting world. That's fine and faithful.

Hmm, but actually — wait. Is the narrator really committed to the rise? Consider: "The governors' minutes recorded the head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance." If there were no rise, the explanation would be for nothing. The narrator treats the rise as real. Yes, GIVEN. I'll note the reading.

Now, thing lines. Let me list them with kinds:

Actual ledger:
- governors is a group; response not stated. (GIVEN, said, sentence 1 — first mentioned there. Actually "governors" appears in sentence 1 "The governors' minutes".)
- minutes is a record; response not stated. (GIVEN, said, sentence 1)
- head_teacher is a person; response not stated. (GIVEN, said, sentence 1)
- attendance is a measure; response not stated. (GIVEN, said, sentence 1) — hmm, attendance as a thing: "attendance" is a rate/measure at the school. Kind: attendance (a measure). Response: not stated. Actually, attendance isn't a physical thing that answers a press. But every thing needs a thing line. Kind: measure? Let me say "attendance is a measure of presence at the school". Response: not stated (it's not a body). Hmm, "not a body" is a response class for wind/cold/heat. Attendance is an abstract measure — not a body. But the text doesn't make that clear in the physical sense. I'll write "not stated" per rule 3. Actually for abstract things, "not stated" is right since the text never says how attendance answers a press.
- school is a school; response not stated. (GIVEN, said, sentence 3)
- canteen_budget is a budget; response not stated. (GIVEN, said, sentence 5)

Told world "meeting":
- bus_route is a bus route; response not stated. (TOLD, said, sentence 2)
- estate is a place; response not stated. (TOLD, said, sentence 2)
- entrance_hall is a hall; response not stated. (TOLD, said, sentence 3)

Wait — should the bus_route and estate thing lines be in the told world? Yes, since they only appear in reported speech. And the school and entrance_hall appear in the minutes' noting (sentence 3) — told world. But the school... is the school mentioned outside the told content? Sentence 3: "the school had also repainted the entrance hall" — that's the minutes' content, TOLD. So school and entrance_hall thing lines are TOLD in world meeting.

Hmm, but wait: the head teacher — she is mentioned in the actual ledger (sentence 1: "the head teacher's explanation"). Her existence is GIVEN in the actual ledger. But her statements are TOLD. The thing line for head_teacher: GIVEN in actual ledger (said, sentence 1). And in the told world, do I need a separate head_teacher thing? The told world doesn't inherit the actual ledger. In the told world, the head teacher is the one who explains/says. Hmm, but her saying is itself reported — the "she said" is binned. So in the told world, the content lines don't need her as a doer... except the repainting: "the school had repainted the entrance hall" — the school is the doer of the repainting. So in the told world, I need school and entrance_hall thing lines. And for attendance/bus_route/estate.

Do I need head_teacher as a thing in the told world? The told world contains: attendance rose, bus route reaches estate, the BECAUSE, school repainted hall, the NOT BECAUSE. The head teacher isn't a participant in any of those happenings (her saying is binned). So no head_teacher thing line in the told world. But wait — rule: "Every thing in a happening must have a thing line of its own." In the told world, the happenings are: school repainted entrance hall. Things: school, entrance hall. The facts (attendance rose, route reaches estate) — attendance, bus_route, estate are things in facts; they need thing lines too? Rule 3 says "Every thing in a happening". Facts also reference things. To be safe, give thing lines for all things in the told world: attendance, bus_route, estate, school, entrance_hall.

Hmm, but attendance — in the told world, "attendance had risen" — attendance is a thing. Give it a thing line in the told world. But attendance also has a thing line in the actual ledger (GIVEN). Two thing lines for the same concept in different worlds — that's fine, worlds are separate.

Wait, actually — hmm. Is "attendance" the same thing in both? In the actual ledger, GIVEN "attendance rose" (the narrator's presupposition). In the told world, "attendance had risen" (her statement). Same attendance (the school's attendance). But the worlds don't inherit. So I need separate lines. That's fine — I'll name them both "attendance" but they live in different worlds. Hmm, but "one name, one thing" — within the actual ledger, attendance is one thing. In the told world, it's a separate copy. The name is the same but the worlds differ. I think that's acceptable; the checker keeps worlds separate. Actually, to avoid confusion, I could use the same name since they refer to the same thing. The example T10D uses "window" and "letter" only in the told world. Let me just use the same names; the case field separates them.

Hmm, wait, but actually — should the GIVEN "attendance rose" even be in the actual ledger? Let me reconsider once more. If I put "attendance rose" as GIVEN in the actual ledger, and the told world also has "attendance rose", there's no clash (worlds separate). Fine.

Alternatively, I could treat the rise as only mentioned (the explanation is for the rise; the rise is the goal/topic, only mentioned). Hmm. "A goal, or the thing a what-if asks about, is only mentioned." The rise isn't a goal or what-if topic. It's a presupposed fact. I'll keep it GIVEN.

Hmm, hold on, let me reconsider. Actually I worry about over-committing. Let me think about what the narrator asserts vs presupposes. "The governors' minutes recorded the head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance." Asserts: the minutes recorded the explanation. Presupposes: there is a rise in attendance, there is a head teacher, there are governors' minutes. So GIVEN: the rise (attendance rose). Yes. Keep.

Now the happenings and their shapes:
- "governors DISCUSSED canteen_budget" — discuss is not in the shape book → "not checked". For groups, only causal words tested. Fine.
- "school REPAINTED entrance_hall" — repaint not in shape book → not checked. Also, repaint — is it press/release/hold? Painting is... not in the list. Not checked. Fine. Actually, "repaint" = paint again. "Paint" isn't in the shape book. Not checked.

Do I need result lines for these happenings? The result of repainting: the entrance hall becomes repainted (a new coat of paint). Hmm, the text doesn't state a result beyond the repainting itself. The happening "school repainted entrance hall" is enough. A result line would be "entrance_hall BECOMES repainted, as a result of the repainting happening" — that's arguably implied but not stated. I could add it as "filled in" or skip. The text says "the school had repainted the entrance hall" — the repainting is the happening; the result (hall is repainted) is implicit. I'll skip the result line — the happening captures it. Actually, hmm, "repainted" as a happening already contains the change. No result line needed. Keep it simple.

For "governors discussed canteen budget" — no result.

Now the BECAUSE and the denial:

In world "meeting":
- Line (say) "rise": attendance rose. TOLD, said, sentence 2. holds(rose(attendance)).
- Line "route": bus_route reaches the estate. TOLD, said, sentence 2. holds(reaches(bus_route, estate)).
- Line "because": line rise BECAUSE line route. TOLD, said, sentence 2. claim_because(because, rose(attendance), reaches(bus_route, estate)).
- Line "repaint": school repainted entrance_hall. TOLD, said, sentence 3. Hmm, as a happening: repainting: school REPAINTED entrance_hall. In Prolog: happening(repainted(school, entrance_hall))? Wait, what's the predicate for happenings? Looking at the examples... example_A has happenings as facts? Let me check example_A.pl: it has `holds(reached(the_cold, balcony_plants))` for "the cold reached the balcony plants" — that's a fact, not a happening with a name. And `claim_because(10, dies(balcony_plants), reached(the_cold, balcony_plants))`.

Hmm, in example_A, "the cold reached the balcony plants" is written as a fact `holds(reached(...))`. And the dying as `holds(dies(...))`. So happenings can be written as holds(...) facts when there's no need for a named happening with results.

The language definition says a Happening is "NAME: DOER VERB THING [DIRECTION]". But the Prolog guide only lists: thing lines (kind/body), facts (holds), denied facts, general lines, exceptions, BECAUSE/SINCE/plan/like, what-if. There's no explicit "happening" predicate in the guide's vocabulary list. Looking at example_A.pl, happenings are encoded as `holds(...)` facts. E.g., "the cold reached the balcony plants" → holds(reached(the_cold, balcony_plants)). And the plan: claim_plan(12, move(thermometer), dies(balcony_plants)).

So for my translation:
- "governors discussed the canteen budget" → holds(discussed(governors, canteen_budget)).
- "the school repainted the entrance hall" → holds(repainted(school, entrance_hall)).

And the BECAUSE: claim_because(id, rose(attendance), reaches(bus_route, estate)).

And the denial: denied_because(id, rose(attendance), reaches(bus_route, estate)).

Wait, but for denied_because, the effect is "the rise in attendance was because of the new bus route" — denied. So denied_because(id, rose(attendance), reaches(bus_route, estate)). Yes.

Hmm, one subtlety: in sentence 4, "the rise in attendance was because of the new bus route" — the cause here is "the new bus route" (the route itself, or the route reaching the estate?). In sentence 2, the cause is "the new bus route now reached the estate". In sentence 4, "because of the new bus route" — the route as the cause. Are these the same cause? Sentence 2: the route reaching the estate. Sentence 4: the new bus route. Slightly different — sentence 4 says "because of the new bus route" which could mean the route's existence/reaching. I'll read them as the same cause (the bus route reaching the estate), and note the reading choice: "because of the new bus route" read as the same cause she gave (the route reaching the estate); alternatively the route's mere existence. I'll choose the same cause, so the denial engages with the claim.

Hmm, wait. Actually, should the cause term be identical for the denial to engage? The checker: "NOT [E BECAUSE C] is fine unless the ledger's own lines make C produce E... Where the writer's own BECAUSE line claims the same effect from the same cause, a further finding is printed beside that one: the writer claims and denies the same cause." So for the finding, the same effect and same cause. If I read sentence 4's cause as "the new bus route" (exists(bus_route)) vs sentence 2's "reaches(bus_route, estate)", they'd be different terms and no finding. The interesting reading is that they're the same cause. I'll read sentence 4's "because of the new bus route" as referring to the same cause (the route reaching the estate) — this is the natural reading (she's retracting her earlier explanation). Note it as a reading choice. Actually, hmm — "because of the new bus route" most naturally means "because of the new bus route [reaching the estate]" i.e., the same thing. Yes, choose that.

Now, also: sentence 4's denial — "she did not think the rise in attendance was because of the new bus route". This denies the BECAUSE. Per the rules, the effect (the rise) still stands; only the causal link is denied. In the told world, the rise stands and the route reaches the estate stands, but the BECAUSE is denied. And the earlier BECAUSE is claimed. So the world has claim_because and denied_because for the same pair → finding.

Also — should I write the denial as NOT around the BECAUSE? Yes: "NOT [line rise BECAUSE line route]". In Prolog: denied_because(id, rose(attendance), reaches(bus_route, estate)).

Now, what about "she did not think" — the attribution of belief. Bin it: "she did not think" — attribution of belief; the content is TOLD in her world. Wait, but the content of what she said is itself the denial. Hmm. Let me be careful: "she said she did not think X" — she said that she didn't think X. So the reported content includes her not-thinking. Per the rules, "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." So: bin "she said she did not think" (attribution of a belief), and write the content — "the rise in attendance was NOT because of the new bus route" — as TOLD in her world. Yes, that's what I have.

Now the bin entries:

1. Sentence 1: "The governors' minutes recorded" — attribution: the minutes are the report; what they record is TOLD in world meeting. The recording itself is not asserted as an actual happening.
   Hmm, wait — actually, is "the minutes recorded the explanation" a claim about the actual world (the minutes exist and contain this)? Per the rules on attribution, we bin the attribution and TOLD the content. But the example T10D: "The account says opening the window caused..." — they binned "The account says" and put the content in account_world, and said "The account's existence is GIVEN". So similarly: the minutes' existence is GIVEN (thing line), and "recorded" is binned as attribution scoping the content to the told world.

   Hmm, but "the minutes recorded the explanation" — the minutes are a document; their recording is their content. So: bin "The governors' minutes recorded" — the minutes are a report; their contents are TOLD in world meeting; the minutes' existence is GIVEN.

2. Sentence 1: "the head teacher's explanation for" — attribution: the explanation is hers; its content is TOLD. Actually, this is part of the same attribution chain. Let me combine: bin entry for sentence 1: "The governors' minutes recorded the head teacher's explanation for" — reason: attribution chain; the minutes are a report and the explanation is the head teacher's; both are recorded content, TOLD in world meeting; the existence of the minutes, the head teacher and the rise is GIVEN in the actual ledger; the explanation's content is given in sentence 2.

   Hmm, that's a mouthful. Let me split into two bin entries or keep one. I'll keep one entry for sentence 1 covering the attribution.

3. Sentence 2: "She said" — attribution of speech; content TOLD in world meeting.

4. Sentence 3: "The minutes noted that" — attribution; content TOLD in world meeting. And "also; over the summer" — "also" is a connective of addition (no separate content); "over the summer" is when (outside the language).

   Hmm, "also" — should it be binned? It's not a commitment. But "nothing is dropped silently". Binning it with a reason is safe. Let me bin "also" with the reason: connective marking an additional item in the minutes; no separate content. And "over the summer": when, outside the language.

   Actually, I could combine "also" into the noting entry or keep separate. Let me keep separate entries for clarity: one for "The minutes noted that" (attribution), one for "also" (connective), one for "over the summer" (when). Or combine "also" and "over the summer". Let me do: "The minutes noted that" (attribution) and "also; over the summer" (connective; when). Hmm, mixing reasons. Let me just do three entries. Actually, let me do two: attribution, and "over the summer" (when). And handle "also" within the repaint line? No. OK three entries. Hmm, that's fine, but maybe cleaner: I'll bin "also" together with "over the summer" noting both reasons. Let me do separate to be clean.

   Actually, you know, let me reconsider "also". "The minutes noted that the school had also repainted the entrance hall" — "also" means in addition to recording the explanation. It's discourse structure. I'll bin it: "also — connective of addition; marks the repainting as a further item in the minutes; no separate content."

5. Sentence 4: "Later in the meeting" — when (sequence/timing), outside the language. Actually, "later in the meeting" gives order — the statement came after the explanation. Order of a chain is allowed ("beyond the order of a chain" goes to bin). Hmm, "the order of a chain" is kept. But "later in the meeting" is a time reference. I could keep the order via a link (the later statement comes after the explanation). But there's no dependency. I'll bin "Later in the meeting" as when (timing beyond chain order). Actually — it does convey that her denial came after her explanation, which matters for the "claims and denies" reading. But the ledger doesn't need timing for that; both lines exist in the world. I'll bin it as when.

6. Sentence 4: "she said she did not think" — attribution of speech and belief; content (the denial) TOLD in world meeting.

7. Sentence 5: "moved on" — figure of speech for proceeding to the next item of business; no physical movement is committed.

Also: "the rise in attendance" — hmm, "rise" as a noun. And "attendance had risen" — the same rise. Fine, one thing: attendance; the fact: rose.

Also sentence 2: "now" in "now reached the estate" — "now" is a time word (when). Bin it? "the new bus route now reached the estate" — "now" indicates the route currently reaches. It's a time word. Hmm, it also implies a change (the route didn't reach before, now it does). "new" also implies recently introduced. Should I bin "now" and "new"? "new" — the bus route is new (recently introduced). That's a description; I can keep it in the thing line: "bus_route is a new bus route" — the kind/description. Or bin "new" as when-ish. Hmm. "new" is a plain description — I can keep it: "bus_route is a bus route, new" — actually descriptions go in fact lines. Let me write the thing line: "bus_route is a bus route; response not stated" and a fact "bus_route is new" — hmm, "new" is a description of the route's age. It's fine as a fact: holds(new(bus_route)). Or I could just include "new" in the thing's description. The Fact kind: "THING plus any plain description". So "bus_route is a new bus route" could be the thing line's description part? The thing line is "NAME is a KIND; response class". The "new" can go in a fact line or be binned as when. Hmm.

Let me think about what "new" and "now" commit to: "the new bus route now reached the estate" — the route is new (recently introduced) and now reaches the estate (currently extends there). The "now" implies it didn't before — a change of state. Per rule 13 (stages), I could put the stage: "bus_route reaches the estate now". But "now" is a time word → bin. Hmm.

I think: keep "new" as part of the route's description (fact: the bus route is new — or just in the thing line's kind as "bus_route is a new bus route"). And bin "now" as when (the route's reaching is current; the word also implies the route did not reach the estate before, which is a change from nothing — but the text doesn't state the earlier state explicitly, it's implied by "now"). Hmm, "now" implying a change — should I write a stage? Rule 13: "When a thing's state changes in the text, put the stage in the fact." The text says "now reached" — the change is implied, not stated. I'll bin "now" noting it implies the route previously did not reach the estate, but the earlier state is not stated. Actually, careful: writing an implied earlier state would be "filled in". I'll just bin "now" as a time word and note the implication.

Similarly "new" — I'll keep it as a description in the thing line: "bus_route is a new bus route". Hmm, but "new" is when-ish (recently introduced). It's a plain description though. I'll keep it in the thing line's kind: kind(bus_route, bus_route) and note "new" in a fact? Let me just put: thing line "bus_route is a new bus route; response to a press not stated" — with kind(bus_route, bus_route) and the "new" as... hmm, the Prolog kind is one atom. Let me do kind(bus_route, bus_route) and a separate fact holds(new(bus_route))? That seems overkill. 

Alternative: bin "new" as when (recently introduced). Hmm. But "new" is a genuine description of the route. I think keeping it is more faithful. Let me write the thing line text as "bus_route is a new bus route; response to a press not stated" and in Prolog: kind(bus_route, bus_route), and skip a separate new() fact — or include holds(new(bus_route)). Hmm, the checker checks kinds where another line speaks about that kind. "new" as a fact doesn't do much. Let me include it as a fact for completeness: holds(new(bus_route)). Actually, you know what — simpler: I'll treat "new" as part of the description and write it in the thing line text, with Prolog kind(bus_route, bus_route). The "new" is then just flavor. But "nothing dropped silently" — it's in the line text, so not dropped. Fine. Actually, let me just bin "new" — no wait. Hmm.

Let me reconsider: "new" and "now" both carry the idea that the route recently started reaching the estate. The causal claim is that attendance rose because the route now reaches the estate. The "new"/"now" matters for the causal story (the route's arrival caused the rise). But the ledger line is: attendance rose BECAUSE bus_route reaches estate. The "new"/"now" nuance (timing) goes to the bin as when. I'll bin both "new" and "now" together: "new ... now — time words: the route was recently introduced and currently reaches the estate; the earlier state (route not reaching) is implied but not stated." Hmm, but then the thing line is just "bus_route is a bus route". 

Hmm, alternatively keep "new" in the thing line. You know, I'll keep "new" as a description in the thing line (it's a plain description, allowed in fact lines) and bin "now" as when. Let me do:
- Thing line (told world): "bus_route is a new bus route; response to a press not stated". Prolog: kind(bus_route, bus_route), body(bus_route, not_stated).
- Bin: "now" — when word; implies the route previously did not reach the estate, but that earlier state is not stated.

Hmm, but "new" as a kind... the kind is "bus_route". The "new" is a description. In the line text I can say "bus_route is a new bus route". The Prolog only encodes kind(bus_route, bus_route). The "new" is in the text but not in Prolog. Is that OK? The Prolog is what the checker runs. "new" would be unrepresented. Hmm. For safety, maybe bin "new" too, or encode holds(new(bus_route)). 

I think the cleanest: bin "new" and "now" together as time words (both convey the route's recent arrival). The thing line: "bus_route is a bus route; response to a press not stated". And the fact line: "bus_route reaches the estate". The bin entry: "new ... now — the route is recently introduced and currently reaches the estate; timing and the implied earlier state are outside the language."

Hmm, but wait — "new" isn't purely timing; it's also a description. But honestly, for the checker, "new" adds nothing checkable. Binning it with a reason is honest. But is "new" really outside the language? "How much, how fast, how hard. Where things are; inside, outside and openings. When..." — "new" is about when the route was introduced. Yes, it's when. Bin it. OK.

Hmm, hold on, but then the cause is "bus_route reaches estate" without the newness. The head teacher's claim is that attendance rose because the new route now reaches the estate. The newness is part of why it would cause a rise (a new route → new access). But the ledger just records the cause as stated: the route reaches the estate. The "new"/"now" nuance goes to the bin. That's faithful — the bin retains it.

OK wait, actually, let me reconsider keeping "now reached" as the verb phrase. The text's verb is "reached". "The new bus route now reached the estate." Happening-ish: bus_route REACHED estate. But "reach" as in "extends to" — not physical touching. I'll write it as a fact: "bus_route reaches the estate" (the route's extent includes the estate). Note in readings: "reached" read as "extends to / serves", not physical contact. Good.

Now — the rise. "attendance had risen" — fact: attendance rose. In the told world. And GIVEN in the actual ledger (from sentence 1's presupposition). 

Also, "the rise in attendance" — is "rise" a thing? No, it's an event/fact: attendance rose. Keep as fact.

Now let me also handle: does the actual ledger need a line for "the minutes recorded the explanation"? Per attribution rules, no — binned. But the example T10D binned "The account says" and noted the account's existence is GIVEN. So: minutes thing line (GIVEN), head_teacher thing line (GIVEN), and the content TOLD. Good.

Wait — but there's a subtlety about the world name. In T10D, the world is "account_world" (what the account says). Here, the attributions come from two sources: the minutes (sentences 1, 3) and the narrator's report of her speech (sentences 2, 4). If I use one world "meeting", I'm saying all this content belongs to one told world (the meeting). Is that right? The minutes record the meeting. Her explanation and the repainting are in the minutes. Her later statement is at the meeting. So "meeting" (what was said and recorded at the governors' meeting) covers all. I'll name the world "meeting" and describe it in names: "what was said and recorded at the governors' meeting".

Hmm, but one could argue the minutes' world and the meeting are different (minutes might not record her later statement). But for the ledger's purposes, the interesting interaction (claim + denial of the same cause) requires them in the same world, and the text supports it: she said both things at the same meeting. I'll use one world and note the reading choice.

Actually hold on, let me reconsider. Sentence 2: "She said attendance had risen because..." — is this the narrator reporting her speech directly, or is it the content of the minutes? Grammatically, sentence 2 is the narrator's report of what she said (the explanation mentioned in sentence 1). Sentence 4: "Later in the meeting, she said..." — also the narrator's report. Both are the narrator telling us what she said at the meeting. The minutes are mentioned as the record. So actually, the narrator is the reporter, and the content of sentences 2 and 4 is what she said at the meeting. The minutes recorded her explanation (sentence 1) and noted the repainting (sentence 3).

So the told world is "the meeting" — what was said at the governors' meeting. The minutes are the document that recorded it. The repainting was "noted by the minutes" — is that something said at the meeting, or a fact the minutes record? It's the minutes' content. If the minutes are the record of the meeting, then the repainting note is part of the meeting's record. I'll put it in world "meeting" as TOLD (the minutes noted it). Fine.

Alternatively — two worlds: "minutes" (what the minutes recorded: explanation + repainting) and... no. Sentence 4 isn't in the minutes necessarily. Ugh. Let me think about which is more faithful:

Option 1: One world "meeting". Contains: her explanation (attendance rose because route), the repainting, her later denial. The claim and denial coexist → checker reports the denied-BECAUSE finding inside the world.

Option 2: Two worlds: "minutes" (explanation, repainting) and "meeting_later" (her denial). Then no interaction.

The text presents her as saying both things at one meeting. The most natural reading: she first explained the rise by the bus route, then later in the same meeting said she didn't think it was the bus route. That's one speaker, one meeting, contradicting herself. Option 1 captures that. I'll go with Option 1, world "meeting", and note the reading choice (the minutes and the narrator's report both concern the same meeting; her two statements are in one world, so the claim and the denial meet).

Hmm, wait, but actually — is sentence 2 necessarily at the meeting? "She said attendance had risen because the new bus route now reached the estate." Given sentence 1 (the minutes recorded her explanation), sentence 2 is the content of that explanation, which she gave at the meeting (recorded in the minutes). Yes, at the meeting. And sentence 4: "Later in the meeting, she said..." — same meeting. Good, one world.

Now, let me also consider: is there anything CLAIMED in the actual ledger about the repainting or the explanation? No — all reported. Only sentence 5 is the narrator's own assertion about the governors' action. And the GIVEN presuppositions (things exist, attendance rose).

Hmm, wait — actually, is "attendance rose" GIVEN or should it be TOLD-only? Let me reconsider one more time. The narrator says "the rise in attendance" (sentence 1) — presupposing the rise. And in sentence 4, "the rise in attendance" appears inside her reported speech (so her presupposition, in the told world). So the actual ledger has GIVEN: attendance rose (sentence 1). I'm confident. Note it as a reading choice.

Now, let me also think about whether the governors' discussing is a happening with a doer. "The governors moved on to discuss the canteen budget." Doer: governors. Verb: discuss. Thing: canteen budget. Happening: governors DISCUSSED canteen_budget. In Prolog: holds(discussed(governors, canteen_budget)). Mark: said. Standing: CLAIMED. Sentence: 5.

And "moved on" binned. Also, "moved on to discuss" — the "to discuss" is purpose-ish (they moved on in order to discuss). Hmm, "moved on to discuss X" = they proceeded to the next item, which was X. It's not really "so that". I'll just write the discussing happening and bin "moved on". The "to" is part of the figure. Fine.

Wait, should I also write a plan line (moved on SO THAT discuss)? No — "moved on" is binned; the plain fact is they discussed the canteen budget. No plan.

Hmm, but actually — "moved on to discuss" might mean they only began to discuss, or that discussing was next. The plain fact: the governors discussed the canteen budget. I'll state that. Note in readings: "moved on to discuss" read as they went on to discuss; the figure "moved on" is binned; no claim they finished.

Now thing lines in the actual ledger:
- governors: a group. (GIVEN, said, sentence 1) — kind(governors, group), body(governors, not_stated).
- minutes: a record. (GIVEN, said, sentence 1) — kind(minutes, record), body(minutes, not_stated).
- head_teacher: a person. (GIVEN, said, sentence 1) — kind(head_teacher, person), body(head_teacher, not_stated).
- attendance: a measure. (GIVEN, said, sentence 1) — kind(attendance, measure), body(attendance, not_stated). Hmm, "measure" as a kind. Attendance is a count/rate of presence. Kind: attendance? Let me use kind(attendance, attendance_rate)? Plain lower-case. I'll use kind(attendance, measure). Hmm, "measure" is fine. Or "rate". Let me use "measure".
   Actually — is attendance even a physical thing? It's an abstract measure. The thing line requires a kind and a response class. For abstract things, "not stated" is the response. Fine.
- canteen_budget: a budget. (GIVEN, said, sentence 5) — kind(canteen_budget, budget), body(canteen_budget, not_stated).

Wait — also the school, entrance_hall, bus_route, estate are only in the told world. Their thing lines are TOLD.

Hmm, but the school — "the school had also repainted the entrance hall" — the school as a doer. In the told world. kind(school, school). And entrance_hall: kind(entrance_hall, hall). bus_route: kind(bus_route, bus_route). estate: kind(estate, place) — hmm, "place"? The estate is a housing estate, a place. kind(estate, estate)? Let me use kind(estate, place). Hmm, or "housing_estate". Keep it plain: kind(estate, estate). Actually the kind should be a plain kind word. "estate" works. Or "place". I'll use "place" — hmm, no, let me use "estate" as the kind; it's plain enough. Actually, kinds are checked "wherever another line speaks about that kind". No other line speaks about estates. Fine, kind(estate, estate).

Hmm, let me reconsider: the guide says thing line: "NAME is a KIND; it answers a press as one of the six response classes". So: "estate is a place; response to a press not stated". I'll use "place" as the kind for estate, "hall" for entrance_hall, "bus_route" for bus_route (a route), "school" for school, "measure" for attendance, "group" for governors, "record" for minutes, "person" for head_teacher, "budget" for canteen_budget.

Now the fact lines:

Actual ledger:
- GIVEN: attendance rose. (said, sentence 1) — holds(rose(attendance)). Hmm, "rose" — attendance rose. Or "risen". holds(rose(attendance)). Fine. Actually, let me name the fact better: holds(risen(attendance))? "rose" is fine. Let me use holds(rose(attendance)).

Hmm wait, actually — should this be "attendance is higher" or "attendance rose"? The text: "the rise in attendance", "attendance had risen". The fact: attendance rose (a completed change). holds(rose(attendance)). OK.

Told world "meeting":
- TOLD: attendance rose. (said, sentence 2) — holds(rose(attendance)).
- TOLD: bus_route reaches the estate. (said, sentence 2) — holds(reaches(bus_route, estate)).
- TOLD: line [attendance rose] BECAUSE line [bus_route reaches estate]. (said, sentence 2) — claim_because(because2, rose(attendance), reaches(bus_route, estate)).
- TOLD: school repainted entrance_hall. (said, sentence 3) — holds(repainted(school, entrance_hall)).
- TOLD: NOT [line [attendance rose] BECAUSE line [bus_route reaches estate]]. (said, sentence 4) — denied_because(denied4, rose(attendance), reaches(bus_route, estate)).

Wait — the denial: "she did not think the rise in attendance was because of the new bus route". The denied content: "the rise in attendance was because of the new bus route" = [rose(attendance)] BECAUSE [reaches(bus_route, estate)] (reading the cause as the route reaching the estate, same as her earlier claim). denied_because(denied4, rose(attendance), reaches(bus_route, estate)). 

Hmm, but should the cause in the denial be "the new bus route" simpliciter? Let me reconsider. "because of the new bus route" — the cause is the new bus route. In sentence 2, the cause is "the new bus route now reached the estate". Are these the same? "Because of the new bus route" is vaguer — it could mean the route's existence, or its reaching the estate. The natural reading in context: she's retraction her explanation, so "because of the new bus route" refers to the same cause (the route reaching the estate). I'll read it that way and note it. If I instead read it as exists(bus_route), the denial wouldn't engage with the claim. The more interesting and faithful reading: same cause. Note in readings_chosen.

Now — do I need a "rise" thing? No, the rise is the fact "attendance rose".

Also — hmm, one more consideration on sentence 1: "the head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance". Should the actual ledger record that the head teacher gave an explanation? That's the attribution, binned. But is there a residual claim: "the head teacher explained the rise"? Per the rules, the attribution goes to the bin and the content is TOLD. The T10D example bins "The account says" entirely. So I bin "the minutes recorded" and "the head teacher's explanation for". The content (the explanation) is TOLD in the meeting world (sentence 2 gives it). Good.

But wait — sentence 1's content is "the head teacher's explanation for the rise", whose content is in sentence 2. So sentence 1 itself contributes: the attribution (binned) + the presupposition (the rise exists → GIVEN attendance rose) + the things (governors, minutes, head_teacher, attendance). OK.

Now the counts:
- Lines said: let me count.
  Actual ledger thing lines: governors, minutes, head_teacher, attendance, canteen_budget = 5 (said, GIVEN).
  Actual ledger fact: attendance rose = 1 (said, GIVEN).
  Actual ledger happening: governors discussed canteen_budget = 1 (said, CLAIMED).
  Told world thing lines: bus_route, estate, school, entrance_hall = 4 (said, TOLD). Plus attendance in the told world? Hmm — attendance appears in the told world too ("attendance had risen"). Does the told world need its own attendance thing line? The told world doesn't inherit the actual ledger. In the told world, the fact "attendance rose" references attendance. Rule 3: every thing in a happening must have a thing line. Attendance is in a fact, not a happening. Hmm. But to be safe, should I add a thing line for attendance in the told world? 

  Let me think. In the told world, the things referenced: attendance (in "attendance rose"), bus_route, estate (in "route reaches estate"), school, entrance_hall (in "school repainted hall"). For the happenings (school repainted hall), school and entrance_hall need thing lines — yes, they have them. For the facts (attendance rose; route reaches estate), attendance, bus_route, estate are referenced. bus_route and estate have thing lines. attendance — in the actual ledger it has one, but the told world doesn't inherit. To be complete, add a thing line for attendance in the told world. Hmm, but is attendance a "thing in a happening"? It's in a fact. The rule is about happenings. But the general principle "every thing gets a thing line" (from the task: "Give every thing in a happening a thing line"). For facts, the things should also be grounded ideally. I'll add an attendance thing line in the told world for completeness. Actually — hmm, wait. Let me reconsider whether to even have "attendance rose" as a separate fact in the told world, given it's GIVEN in the actual ledger. Yes, it must be in the told world because the told world doesn't inherit — her BECAUSE claim points at "attendance rose" and "route reaches estate", both of which must be in the world. So the world needs: attendance rose (fact), route reaches estate (fact), the BECAUSE, the repainting, the denial. And thing lines for attendance, bus_route, estate, school, entrance_hall.

  So told world thing lines: attendance, bus_route, estate, school, entrance_hall = 5 (said, TOLD).
  Told world facts: attendance rose, route reaches estate = 2 (said, TOLD).
  Told world BECAUSE: 1 (said, TOLD).
  Told world happening: school repainted entrance_hall = 1 (said, TOLD).
  Told world denial: 1 (said, TOLD).

Total said lines: 5 (actual things) + 1 (actual fact) + 1 (actual happening) + 5 (told things) + 2 (told facts) + 1 (told because) + 1 (told happening) + 1 (told denial) = 17.

Filled in: 0? Hmm. Let me check — do I have any filled-in lines? The readings I chose (the cause in sentence 4 = same as sentence 2) — that's a reading, but the line itself is "said" content with my reading of its reference. Per rule: "Where part was said and part is your choice, split the line if you can." The denial line is what she said; my choice is which cause term it points at. I think the line is "said" (she said the denial), and the reading choice is recorded in readings_chosen. Hmm, but should the denial line be marked "filled in" because I chose the cause referent? The mark is about the line's content: the content (she denies the bus-route cause) is said. The identification of the exact cause term is a reading. I'll mark it "said" and record the reading. Hmm, but the guide says "Mark every line you add as 'filled in'... where part was said and part is yours, split it or mark the whole line 'filled in'". Here the line's content is entirely said; only the cross-reference (which cause) is my reading. I think "said" is right, with the reading recorded. Actually, to be safe, I could mark the denial line "said" — the denial is her words. The reading choice is in readings_chosen. That's the cleanest. The example P14 marks line h (the BECAUSE from "structure produces the spread") as "filled in" because the text says "the group structure produces the spread of helping" and they interpreted "structure" as presence. Hmm, in P14, line h is "filled in" because the BECAUSE was constructed from a reading of "the group structure produces the spread". 

For my sentence 2: "attendance had risen because the new bus route now reached the estate" — this is an explicit BECAUSE in the text. So the BECAUSE line is "said". Good.

For sentence 4's denial: "she did not think the rise in attendance was because of the new bus route" — an explicit denial of BECAUSE. The line is "said". The cause referent reading is recorded. I'll mark it "said". Hmm, but the cause term I use (reaches(bus_route, estate)) comes from sentence 2, not sentence 4. Sentence 4's own words are "because of the new bus route". So the denial line's cause is my reading (that "the new bus route" refers to the route reaching the estate). Per the rules, this is a reading; the line content is said but the cross-reference is mine. I think marking it "said" with the reading recorded is defensible, but to be extra careful, maybe mark it "filled in" and say in the line which part I added (the identification of the cause as the route reaching the estate). Hmm.

Let me look at the rule again: "Source mark. Mark what the writer wrote as 'said'. Mark every line you add as 'filled in' (your reading, or a missing step)... Give each line one mark; where part was said and part is yours, split it into two lines, or mark the whole line 'filled in' and say in the line which part you added."

The denial line: what the writer wrote is "she did not think the rise in attendance was because of the new bus route". The line I write: "NOT [attendance rose BECAUSE bus_route reaches estate]". The "bus_route reaches estate" part is my identification of "the new bus route" cause. So part said, part mine. I can't easily split it. So: mark the whole line "filled in" and say in it which part I added? Hmm, but that feels wrong — the denial itself is clearly said.

Alternative: write the denial as "NOT [attendance rose BECAUSE the new bus route]" with the cause as a bare fact "the new bus route exists"? No, that changes the meaning.

Hmm. Let me reconsider. Actually, I think the cleanest approach: write the denial line as "said" with content "NOT [line rise BECAUSE line route]" and record in readings_chosen that I read "because of the new bus route" as pointing at the same cause as sentence 2 (the route reaching the estate). The reading is about cross-reference, not about adding content. The example P14's line h is "filled in" because the text didn't state a BECAUSE line explicitly — it said "the group structure produces the spread" which they read as a BECAUSE. Here, the text explicitly states the denial. So "said" is right.

Hmm, but the cause term... ugh. OK let me think about it differently. What does the checker need? denied_because(id, Effect, Cause). The Effect = rose(attendance) (matches the claimed effect). The Cause = reaches(bus_route, estate) (matches the claimed cause). For the "claims and denies the same cause" finding, they must match. My reading that sentence 4's "the new bus route" = sentence 2's "the new bus route now reached the estate" is a reading choice, recorded. The line is said content. I'll mark it "said" and note the reading. Actually — hmm, let me just mark it "said" but be very explicit in readings_chosen. I think that's fine and honest.

Wait, actually, no. Let me reconsider. There's a real question of whether to mark it filled in. The safest, most rule-compliant approach: the denial line's content is what she said (the denial), and the cause reference is my reading. Since I cannot split the line, I could mark it "filled in" and say in the line: "the denial is hers; the cause is read as the route reaching the estate (line route)". Hmm, but then the count of "said" lines drops and the report would say the denial leans on an added line. That misrepresents: the denial is clearly hers.

Alternatively — split into two lines? Like: line d1 (said): "NOT [attendance rose BECAUSE a cause she had named]" — no, that's vague.

You know what, I'll mark it "said" and record the reading choice clearly. The rule's intent is not to hide translator additions; a recorded reading choice in readings_chosen is transparent. The denial is the writer's (the head teacher's, as reported). Mark: said.

Hmm, hold on, wait. Let me reconsider — "the writer" here. The text's writer is the narrator of B05. The narrator reports her speech. The denial is reported content in a told world. The "said" mark means "the writer wrote it" — the narrator did write "she did not think the rise in attendance was because of the new bus route". So the denial line (as TOLD content) is "said". Yes. Mark: said.

OK now, are there any "filled in" lines at all? Let me see if I need any missing steps:
- The actual ledger: governors discussed canteen budget — said. attendance rose (GIVEN) — said. Thing lines — said.
- Do I need a "usual case" line? Hmm. Any general lines? The text has no general rules. No ALWAYS/USUALLY lines. No tendencies. No habits. 
- Any missing steps? The BECAUSE in sentence 2 is explicit. The denial is explicit. No missing steps needed.

Hmm, so filled in = 0, usual case = 0. Is that plausible? Let me double-check for anything I'm missing.

Wait — the head teacher's explanation being recorded in the minutes: is there a missing step that the explanation = sentence 2's content? The text says "recorded the head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance. She said attendance had risen because..." — sentence 2 is the explanation. That's the text's structure, not a missing step. Fine.

Hmm, what about "the governors moved on to discuss" — do I need a line for "the governors moved on"? I binned "moved on". The happening is "governors discussed canteen budget". That's the plain fact. OK.

What about the canteen budget being "the canteen budget" — a budget for the canteen. Thing line: canteen_budget is a budget. Fine.

So: 17 said lines, 0 filled in, 0 usual case. Hmm, let me recount.

Actual ledger lines:
1. governors (thing, GIVEN, said, s1)
2. minutes (thing, GIVEN, said, s1)
3. head_teacher (thing, GIVEN, said, s1)
4. attendance (thing, GIVEN, said, s1)
5. attendance rose (fact, GIVEN, said, s1)
6. canteen_budget (thing, GIVEN, said, s5)
7. governors discussed canteen_budget (happening, CLAIMED, said, s5)

Told world "meeting" lines:
8. attendance (thing, TOLD, said, s2)
9. bus_route (thing, TOLD, said, s2)
10. estate (thing, TOLD, said, s2)
11. school (thing, TOLD, said, s3)
12. entrance_hall (thing, TOLD, said, s3)
13. attendance rose (fact, TOLD, said, s2)
14. bus_route reaches estate (fact, TOLD, said, s2)
15. line 13 BECAUSE line 14 (claim, TOLD, said, s2)
16. school repainted entrance_hall (happening, TOLD, said, s3)
17. NOT [line 13 BECAUSE line 14] (denial, TOLD, said, s4)

That's 17 lines, all said. Hmm, wait — should line 5 (attendance rose, GIVEN) be in the actual ledger? I argued yes (presupposition). Let me keep it.

Hmm, but hold on — is there an issue with the told world containing "attendance rose" and the actual ledger also containing it? No — worlds are separate; both can have it. Fine.

Also — should the told world contain a thing line for "head_teacher"? In the told world, is the head teacher a participant? The repainting is by the school. The statements are binned attributions. So no. But wait — hmm, the told world is "what was said at the meeting". The head teacher said things. But her saying is binned. The world contains the content. So no head_teacher thing needed there. OK.

Hmm, wait — but actually, should the told world include the fact that the head teacher explained? No — binned attribution. OK.

Now — one more thought: the "meeting" world. Should sentence 3's repainting be in the meeting world or a separate "minutes" world? I decided: one world "meeting". Let me also double check the world name and describe it in... hmm, the JSON format doesn't have a "names" field in the required list (example_T10D has one, but the guide's schema doesn't list it as required). The guide's schema: paragraph, whose, sentences, bin, leftover, whatifs, lines, words_split, readings_chosen. I'll follow the guide's schema exactly. I can add a "names" field like T10D? The guide says "Every field below is required unless marked optional" and doesn't list "names". Adding extra fields might break the driver. Let me stick to the guide's schema exactly: paragraph, whose, sentences, bin, leftover, whatifs, lines, words_split, readings_chosen. I'll put name explanations in readings_chosen or leftover instead. Hmm, T10D (an example) has "names", "translation_gauge", "author_note", "status" — but the guide's schema is the authority. The guide says match the examples' shapes... conflicting. Let me include the required fields from the guide, and I'll add a "names" field since T10D has one — actually no. Let me be careful: the guide is "ENCODING GUIDE for translators" and gives the exact JSON structure. The examples are older (T10D is "under L72", P14 "under L66"). The guide is current. I'll follow the guide's structure exactly. I can mention world names in readings_chosen.

Hmm, but the guide says "Match their shapes" referring to the examples. The examples' common required fields: paragraph, whose, sentences, bin, leftover, whatifs, lines, words_split, readings_chosen. T10D has extra fields (names, translation_gauge, etc.) but P14 has exactly the guide's fields. So P14 is the model. I'll match P14's shape: paragraph, whose, sentences, bin, leftover, whatifs, lines, words_split, readings_chosen. 

Now the printed output (the five sections from task 39):
1. The ledger as a table: Number | Standing | Content | Source mark | Sentence.
2. The bin.
3. Words I split.
4. Readings I chose.
5. The count: lines said, lines filled in, lines usual case, sentences that lost something to the bin.

Then the JSON block, then TRANSLATION COMPLETE.

Wait — the task says "Close with: TRANSLATION COMPLETE. Then wait." And the encoding guide says print the JSON after the five sections. And the overall instruction says "ending with the JSON block and then the words TRANSLATION COMPLETE". So: five sections, then JSON block, then TRANSLATION COMPLETE.

Also the PARKED list: "Judgements about whether the writer's reasoning is good... go in a PARKED list at the very end, one line each." Hmm, "at the very end" — after TRANSLATION COMPLETE? The task says "Close with: TRANSLATION COMPLETE. Then wait." and the parking place says the PARKED list goes at the very end. Let me put PARKED before TRANSLATION COMPLETE, or after? "at the very end, one line each. Then return to the line in hand." Hmm. The final instruction says "ending with the JSON block and then the words TRANSLATION COMPLETE". So the order: five sections, PARKED (maybe), JSON, TRANSLATION COMPLETE. Hmm, "the very end" — I'll put PARKED right before the JSON block, or after TRANSLATION COMPLETE? 

The user's final instruction: "print exactly what the task and the guide ask for, ending with the JSON block and then the words TRANSLATION COMPLETE." So the JSON block is near the end, followed by TRANSLATION COMPLETE. The PARKED list — the task says it goes "at the very end". Since the JSON must come before TRANSLATION COMPLETE, and PARKED is "at the very end"... I'll put PARKED after the five sections and before the JSON, since the JSON+TRANSLATION COMPLETE is the closing. Actually, hmm, "at the very end" might mean after everything. But the user says ending with JSON then TRANSLATION COMPLETE. Let me put PARKED just before the JSON block. That satisfies "at the very end" of the prose output, with the JSON as the machine-readable tail. Actually, I could also put PARKED after TRANSLATION COMPLETE. But the user said "ending with ... TRANSLATION COMPLETE" — so TRANSLATION COMPLETE is the last thing. PARKED goes before it. I'll put PARKED after the five sections and before the JSON. Hmm, or between JSON and TRANSLATION COMPLETE? No — the JSON block should be immediately followed by TRANSLATION COMPLETE per the guide ("print the ledger once more as ONE JSON object... Nothing else goes in that block" and the user "ending with the JSON block and then the words TRANSLATION COMPLETE"). So PARKED before the JSON. 

Do I have anything to park? Judgements about the writer's reasoning: the head teacher contradicts herself (claims then denies the same cause). That's a judgement about the reasoning — but it's also what the checker will find. Hmm. The parking place is for my judgements about whether the reasoning is good, and ideas for procedures. I could park: "The head teacher gives a cause and then denies it; the ledger's checker will report this as a denied BECAUSE against her own claim, inside the meeting world." That's a finding, not a judgement... Let me park a genuine judgement: "Her later denial withdraws her earlier explanation without supplying an alternative; the ledger records both and leaves the rise unexplained in the meeting world." That's a judgement about the reasoning. I'll include one or two PARKED lines. Keep it brief.

Now, let me write out the ledger table.

Line numbering: the task says "Number the sentences" and lines get numbers. I'll use short ids: for the actual ledger, I could use numbers 1-7, and for the told world, letters or continued numbers. The language says "Number: 1, 2, 3, or a short name such as p1 for a happening". Let me use simple ids: g1, g2... or numbers. Let me use lowercase short ids for Prolog compatibility: "gov", "min", "ht", "att", "att_rise", "cb", "discuss" for actual; and for told world: "t_att", "t_route", "t_estate", "t_school", "t_hall", "t_rise", "t_reach", "t_because", "t_repaint", "t_denied". Hmm, these are long. Let me use shorter: actual: a1-a7; told: b1-b8? But then the line ids don't speak. The guide says "Short lower-case letters or words with no spaces (a, b, lamp, since1)". Let me use meaningful short ids:

Actual ledger:
- "governors" → id "gov"
- "minutes" → id "min"
- "head_teacher" → id "ht"
- "attendance" → id "att"
- "attendance rose" → id "rise"
- "canteen_budget" → id "budget"
- "governors discussed canteen_budget" → id "discuss"

Told world "meeting":
- "attendance" thing → id "m_att"
- "bus_route" thing → id "m_route"
- "estate" thing → id "m_estate"
- "school" thing → id "m_school"
- "entrance_hall" thing → id "m_hall"
- "attendance rose" fact → id "m_rise"
- "bus_route reaches estate" fact → id "m_reach"
- "BECAUSE" → id "m_because"
- "school repainted entrance_hall" → id "m_repaint"
- "NOT BECAUSE" → id "m_denied"

Hmm, the "m_" prefix is a bit ugly but clear. Alternatively, since worlds are separate, I could reuse ids? No — ids must be unique in the JSON. Use the m_ prefix. Actually, let me use cleaner names: for the told world, "w_att", "w_route", etc.? Or just "t1".."t8"? Meaningful is better. Let me use: "meet_att", "meet_route", "meet_estate", "meet_school", "meet_hall", "meet_rise", "meet_reach", "meet_because", "meet_repaint", "meet_denied". Hmm, long but clear. Or shorter: "ka_att"... no. Let me just use "m_att" etc. Actually, the guide warns "Names that end in an underscore and a number" are bad (checker merges them). "m_att" doesn't end in underscore+number. It's fine. Hmm, but underscores in general are fine (atoms use underscores). OK, I'll use the m_ prefix. Hmm, actually, let me reconsider — maybe simpler ids without underscores where possible: actual: gov, min, ht, att, rise, budget, discuss. Told: matt, mroute, mestate, mschool, mhall, mrise, mreach, mbecause, mrepaint, mdenied. These are single lowercase words, no underscores. Cleaner for Prolog atoms. Let me use those.

Wait, but the thing names in Prolog: the things are "governors", "minutes", "head_teacher", "attendance", "canteen_budget", "bus_route", "estate", "school", "entrance_hall". Those have underscores — fine, they're atoms. The line ids are separate: gov, min, ht, att, rise, budget, discuss, matt, mroute, mestate, mschool, mhall, mrise, mreach, mbecause, mrepaint, mdenied.

Hmm, "att" as a line id vs "attendance" as a thing name — fine, they're different namespaces (line(id) vs kind(thing, kind)).

Now the Prolog clauses:

Actual ledger:
- gov: kind(governors, group) :- line(gov). body(governors, not_stated) :- line(gov).
- min: kind(minutes, record) :- line(min). body(minutes, not_stated) :- line(min).
- ht: kind(head_teacher, person) :- line(ht). body(head_teacher, not_stated) :- line(ht).
- att: kind(attendance, measure) :- line(att). body(attendance, not_stated) :- line(att).
- rise: holds(rose(attendance)) :- line(rise).
- budget: kind(canteen_budget, budget) :- line(budget). body(canteen_budget, not_stated) :- line(budget).
- discuss: holds(discussed(governors, canteen_budget)) :- line(discuss).

Told world "meeting":
- matt: kind(attendance, measure) :- line(matt). body(attendance, not_stated) :- line(matt).
- mroute: kind(bus_route, bus_route) :- line(mroute). body(bus_route, not_stated) :- line(mroute).
- mestate: kind(estate, place) :- line(mestate). body(estate, not_stated) :- line(mestate).
- mschool: kind(school, school) :- line(mschool). body(school, not_stated) :- line(mschool).
- mhall: kind(entrance_hall, hall) :- line(mhall). body(entrance_hall, not_stated) :- line(mhall).
- mrise: holds(rose(attendance)) :- line(mrise).
- mreach: holds(reaches(bus_route, estate)) :- line(mreach).
- mbecause: claim_because(mbecause, rose(attendance), reaches(bus_route, estate)) :- line(mbecause).
- mrepaint: holds(repainted(school, entrance_hall)) :- line(mrepaint).
- mdenied: denied_because(mdenied, rose(attendance), reaches(bus_route, estate)) :- line(mdenied).

Wait — the thing names in the told world: attendance, bus_route, estate, school, entrance_hall. In the actual ledger, "attendance" is also a thing name. Since worlds are separate in the checker, reusing the atom "attendance" is OK (the case field separates them). Actually, hmm — will the Prolog clauses from different worlds be in the same file? The guide says "A TOLD or SUPPOSED line uses the same clauses; its case and case_kind fields tell the checker which world it belongs to." So the checker handles world separation. Reusing atom names across worlds should be fine (the checker presumably namespaces by world). I'll reuse "attendance" — it's the same thing conceptually.

Hmm, wait — but should the told world's attendance be the same atom? If the checker namespaces worlds, then holds(rose(attendance)) in the meeting world is separate from the actual ledger's. Yes. OK.

Now — one issue: in the actual ledger, "attendance rose" is GIVEN (line rise). In the told world, "attendance rose" is TOLD (line mrise). Both holds(rose(attendance)). Fine.

Now, the "leftover" field: one string per bin entry: 'Sentence N: <words> — <reason>'. Let me build those.

Bin entries:
1. Sentence 1: "The governors' minutes recorded the head teacher's explanation for" — reason: attribution chain; the minutes are a report and the explanation is the head teacher's reported speech; the recorded contents are TOLD in world meeting; the minutes' and head teacher's existence is GIVEN in the actual ledger; the explanation's content follows in sentence 2.
2. Sentence 2: "She said" — attribution of speech; content TOLD in world meeting.
3. Sentence 2: "new; now" — hmm, wait, I decided to bin "new" and "now"? Let me reconsider. "the new bus route now reached the estate". "new" — the route is new. "now" — currently. Both are timing. I'll bin them together: words "new ... now" — reason: time words; the route is recently introduced and its reaching the estate is current; the implied earlier state (the route not reaching the estate) is not stated; timing is outside the language.
   Hmm, actually — hold on. Should "new" really be binned? It's a description of the bus route. The Fact kind allows plain descriptions. I could write the thing line as "bus_route is a new bus route". But then "new" is in the line text but not in Prolog (kind(bus_route, bus_route)). For Prolog representation, "new" would need holds(new(bus_route)). Is that worth it? The checker doesn't do anything with "new". Binning it is honest: it's a time word (recently introduced). I'll bin it. Actually hmm, let me keep it simple and bin both "new" and "now" as timing.
   
   Wait, but actually — "new" matters for the causal claim? The claim is attendance rose because the route reaches the estate. Whether the route is new is timing detail. The bin retains it. OK, bin.
   
4. Sentence 3: "The minutes noted that" — attribution; the minutes' contents are TOLD in world meeting.
5. Sentence 3: "also" — connective of addition; marks the repainting as a further item in the minutes; no separate content.
6. Sentence 3: "over the summer" — when; timing is outside the language.
7. Sentence 4: "Later in the meeting" — when; her later statement came after the explanation; order beyond a chain is outside the language. Hmm — actually, "later in the meeting" does convey order. The rules say "When, beyond the order of a chain and the stage named in a fact" goes to bin. The order of a chain is kept when there's a dependency. Here there's no dependency between her explanation and her later statement — just sequence. So bin it as when/sequence.
8. Sentence 4: "she said she did not think" — attribution of speech and belief; the denied content is TOLD in world meeting.
9. Sentence 5: "moved on" — figure of speech for proceeding to the next item of business; no physical movement is committed.

Hmm, also sentence 1: "the rise in attendance" — the rise is presupposed; I recorded it as GIVEN. Not binned. OK.

Also — should I bin anything from sentence 5 else? "The governors moved on to discuss the canteen budget." — "moved on" binned; the rest is the happening. OK.

Wait, also — sentence 2: "because" — kept as BECAUSE. "had risen" — kept. OK.

Hmm, one more: sentence 1 — "the head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance" — the "for" (the explanation is for the rise) — that's part of the attribution. Binned in entry 1.

Now, sentences that lost something to the bin: sentences 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 all lost something. Sentence 1 lost the attribution; sentence 2 lost "She said" + "new"/"now"; sentence 3 lost "The minutes noted that" + "also" + "over the summer"; sentence 4 lost "Later in the meeting" + "she said she did not think"; sentence 5 lost "moved on". So all 5 sentences lost something to the bin. Count: 5.

Hmm wait, but sentences also have ledger lines. "Sentences that lost something to the bin" = sentences where part went to the bin. All 5. OK.

Now the count section:
- lines said: 17
- lines filled in: 0
- lines usual case: 0
- sentences that lost something to the bin: 5

Hmm, wait. Let me double-check the line count and whether I need any filled-in lines. Let me re-examine each sentence for missing steps or readings that should be filled-in lines.

Sentence 1: "The governors' minutes recorded the head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance."
- Things: governors, minutes, head_teacher, attendance. Thing lines (said, GIVEN).
- GIVEN: attendance rose (presupposition of "the rise"). Hmm — is this "said" or "filled in"? The presupposition is from the text; GIVEN lines are typically "said" (the writer takes it for granted). In example_A, GIVEN lines are marked "said". So "said".
- Attribution binned.
So sentence 1: 5 lines (4 things + 1 fact), all said. Bin: attribution.

Sentence 2: "She said attendance had risen because the new bus route now reached the estate."
- TOLD world: attendance rose, route reaches estate, BECAUSE. Plus thing lines for attendance, bus_route, estate.
- All said. Bin: "She said", "new"/"now".
So 6 lines (3 things + 2 facts + 1 because).

Sentence 3: "The minutes noted that the school had also repainted the entrance hall over the summer."
- TOLD: school repainted entrance_hall. Thing lines: school, entrance_hall.
- 3 lines, said. Bin: "The minutes noted that", "also", "over the summer".

Sentence 4: "Later in the meeting, she said she did not think the rise in attendance was because of the new bus route."
- TOLD: NOT [rise BECAUSE reach]. 1 line, said.
- Bin: "Later in the meeting", "she said she did not think".

Sentence 5: "The governors moved on to discuss the canteen budget."
- Actual: governors discussed canteen_budget. Thing: canteen_budget. 2 lines, said.
- Bin: "moved on".

Total: 5 + 6 + 3 + 1 + 2 = 17 lines. All said. Filled in: 0. Usual case: 0.

Hmm, 0 filled-in lines — is that a problem? The task says mark every line you add. I added none; every line comes straight from the text. The readings I made (the cause referent in sentence 4; "reached" as "extends to"; the world structure) are recorded in readings_chosen, not as lines. That seems right — none of them are missing steps or added content; they're interpretations of what the text says.

Wait, but one reading might warrant a filled-in line: the identification of "the new bus route" in sentence 4 with "the new bus route now reached the estate" in sentence 2. Hmm. If I mark the denial line "said", the reading is recorded in readings_chosen. I think that's acceptable. But let me reconsider — the denial line points at line mreach as the cause. The pointing is my choice. Per rule 10, "Claims about lines point; they do not restate." The denial is a claim about lines (the BECAUSE). It points at mrise and mreach. The pointing choice is a reading. I'll keep the line "said" and record the reading. Actually, hmm, you know what — let me reconsider marking it "filled in" to be safe. 

The rule: "where part was said and part is yours, split it into two lines, or mark the whole line 'filled in' and say in the line which part you added."

The denial line: "NOT [line mrise BECAUSE line mreach]". What's said: she denies that the rise was because of the bus route. What's mine: identifying the cause as line mreach (the route reaching the estate) rather than a bare route fact. 

If I split: line A (said): "NOT [the rise in attendance was because of the new bus route]" — but this needs to point at lines to be checked. A denial that doesn't point can't engage with the claim. Hmm.

Alternatively, write two lines:
- mdenied (said): "NOT [line mrise BECAUSE a cause named as the new bus route]" — vague.
No, that doesn't work.

I think the best solution: mark mdenied as "said" and record clearly in readings_chosen that the cause referent is my reading. The denial content itself is entirely hers. The cross-reference is structural, not content. Also, note: even the claim_because line (mbecause) involves my choice of terms (rose(attendance), reaches(bus_route, estate)) — that's just translation, not addition. Similarly for the denial. So both are "said". The reading is recorded. OK, decided: mdenied is "said".

Hmm, hold on, wait. Actually, let me reconsider whether the denial should even point at mreach, or whether I should introduce a separate cause fact for sentence 4. Option: sentence 4's cause is "the new bus route" — I could write a fact "the new bus route exists" (holds(new_bus_route_reaches...)) no. Hmm. The cleanest: read sentence 4's "because of the new bus route" as the same cause she gave in sentence 2 (the route reaching the estate). This is the natural reading (she's retracting). Record in readings_chosen. The denial points at mrise and mreach. Good.

Now — words_split: do any words get split? "the rise in attendance" vs "attendance had risen" — same rise, not a split. "the new bus route" — same route. "recorded" vs "noted" — synonyms, not a split of one word. Hmm, "the school" — same school. I don't think any word is used in two senses. Actually — "the minutes" (sentence 1, "governors' minutes" = the record) vs... no other "minutes". "Later in the meeting" — "meeting" appears once. Hmm, no splits. words_split: [].

Wait — "attendance": "the rise in attendance" (sentence 1), "attendance had risen" (sentence 2), "the rise in attendance" (sentence 4). All the same attendance. No split.

"the new bus route" (sentence 2), "the new bus route" (sentence 4) — same. No split.

OK, words_split is empty. Good.

Readings I chose:
1. Sentence 1: "The governors' minutes recorded the head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance." Readings: (a) the narrator asserts the minutes recorded the explanation (an actual fact about the minutes); (b) the whole sentence is an attribution scoping its contents to a told world. Chosen: (b) — the minutes are a report; their contents are TOLD in world meeting; the minutes' existence, the head teacher's existence and the rise are GIVEN in the actual ledger. Also: "the rise in attendance" presupposes the rise — chosen to record it as GIVEN (attendance rose) in the actual ledger; the alternative (the rise is only the topic of the explanation, not committed to) was not taken.
2. Sentence 2: "She said attendance had risen because the new bus route now reached the estate." Readings: "reached the estate" as physical touching vs extends to/serves. Chosen: extends to/serves (the route's extent includes the estate); recorded as a fact, not a physical happening. Also: "new"/"now" as timing — binned. Also: the BECAUSE is explicit — claim_because, no general rule added.
3. Sentence 4: "she did not think the rise in attendance was because of the new bus route." Readings: "because of the new bus route" as (a) the same cause she gave in sentence 2 (the route reaching the estate), or (b) the route's mere existence. Chosen: (a), so the denial engages with her earlier claim inside the meeting world. Also: "she did not think" as belief attribution — binned; the denied content is TOLD.
4. Worlds: readings — one told world "meeting" for all reported content (her explanation, the minutes' noting, her later statement) vs separate worlds for the minutes and her later statement. Chosen: one world, because she said both things at the same meeting and the minutes are its record; this lets the claim and the denial meet inside one world.
5. Sentence 5: "moved on to discuss" — readings: (a) physical movement, (b) figure for proceeding to the next item of business. Chosen: (b); the figure is binned; the plain fact (the governors discussed the canteen budget) is the line.
6. Sentence 3: "over the summer" — when, binned. "also" — connective, binned.

Also maybe: sentence 1's "explanation" — reading: the explanation's content is given in sentence 2 (the text's structure), not a separate fact. Fine, mention in reading 1.

Let me also double check: should the actual ledger have a line for "the head teacher explained"? Binned as attribution. Yes.

Hmm, now — one thing I want to reconsider: the world name and whether the repainting belongs in the meeting world. The repainting is "noted by the minutes" — it's a fact the minutes record, not necessarily something said at the meeting. But the minutes are the record of the meeting. In a told world for the meeting (what the minutes and the narrator report about the meeting), the repainting is a recorded fact. Fine — it's in world "meeting". It doesn't interact with the BECAUSE claim anyway.

Alternatively, I could name the world "minutes" — but sentence 4's statement is reported by the narrator directly, not via the minutes. Hmm. If the world is "minutes", then sentence 4's denial would be... in the actual ledger? No — it's still reported speech ("she said"). It'd need its own world or the same world. Since she said it at the meeting and the minutes record the meeting, "meeting" covers it. I'll use "meeting" and explain in readings.

Hmm, wait — actually, is there a reading where sentence 4's statement is NOT in the minutes? Yes — the narrator tells us she said it later in the meeting; the minutes may or may not record it. But it's still part of what happened at the meeting. The told world "meeting" = what was said and recorded at the governors' meeting. That includes both her statements and the minutes' noting. Good.

Now — the whatifs field: empty array. No what-ifs in this text. The text has no "what if", "remove X and Y stops", etc. Sentence... no. So whatifs: [].

Now let me also double-check the "sentences" field: all 5 sentences verbatim.

Let me also reconsider: does the actual ledger need a thing line for "the meeting"? The meeting is mentioned ("Later in the meeting"). Hmm — the meeting is when/where, not a thing in a happening. It's binned as when ("Later in the meeting"). So no thing line for the meeting. OK.

Also "the summer" — binned (when). No thing line.

Also "the estate" — thing line in told world. Good.

Now, let me reconsider the "attendance" kind. "attendance is a measure" — hmm, attendance is a count of people present. As a thing, it's an abstract measure. kind(attendance, measure). Response: not stated. OK. Hmm, or should attendance be "not a body"? The response class "not a body" is for wind/cold/heat "and only when the text makes that clear". The text doesn't discuss attendance's physical nature. "not stated" is right.

Now, let me write the final output.

Actually wait — one more check on the denial and the "same cause" finding. L80: "Where the writer's own BECAUSE line claims the same effect from the same cause, a further finding is printed beside that one: the writer claims and denies the same cause." Inside the told world, the checker asks this. So the meeting world will have: claim_because(mbecause, rose(attendance), reaches(bus_route, estate)) and denied_because(mdenied, rose(attendance), reaches(bus_route, estate)). Same effect, same cause → finding. Good, that's the point of the text. I'll note it in PARKED (as an observation, not a judgement... hmm). Actually the PARKED list is for judgements about the reasoning and ideas for procedures. Let me park: "The head teacher withdraws her bus-route cause without giving another; inside the meeting world the rise is left with a claimed and a denied cause, and no alternative is stated." That's an observation/judgement. OK.

Also, hmm — should I note in the ledger that the denial leaves the rise unexplained? That's a fact about the lines (the world has no other cause for the rise). I won't write a line for that; it's for the checker to find. I'll park it.

Let me now also double check the JSON structure requirements:
- "paragraph": "B05"
- "whose": "<my name, the model I am>, under L82" — I'm Claude (Anthropic). I'll write "Claude (Anthropic), under L82". Hmm, "under L82" — the guide says "<your name, the model you are>, under L82". OK.
- "sentences": {"1": ..., "2": ..., ...}
- "bin": [ {sentence, words, reason}, ... ]
- "leftover": [ "Sentence N: <words> — <reason>", ... ]
- "whatifs": []
- "lines": { id: {mark, sentence, standing, text, case, case_kind, prolog_clauses} } — case/case_kind only for TOLD/SUPPOSED.
- "words_split": []
- "readings_chosen": [ "Sentence N: ...; chosen: ..." ]

The "text" field of a line: "[<standing>] <the line in the language's words>". E.g., "[GIVEN] governors is a group; response to a press not stated".

Let me write all the line texts:

Actual ledger:
- gov: "[GIVEN] governors is a group; response to a press not stated" — mark said, sentence 1, standing GIVEN.
- min: "[GIVEN] minutes is a record; response to a press not stated" — said, 1, GIVEN.
- ht: "[GIVEN] head_teacher is a person; response to a press not stated" — said, 1, GIVEN.
- att: "[GIVEN] attendance is a measure; response to a press not stated" — said, 1, GIVEN.
- rise: "[GIVEN] attendance rose" — said, 1, GIVEN.
- budget: "[GIVEN] canteen_budget is a budget; response to a press not stated" — said, 5, GIVEN.
- discuss: "[CLAIMED] governors DISCUSSED canteen_budget" — said, 5, CLAIMED.

Told world meeting:
- matt: "[TOLD in world meeting] attendance is a measure; response to a press not stated" — said, 2, TOLD in world meeting, case meeting, case_kind told.
- mroute: "[TOLD in world meeting] bus_route is a bus route; response to a press not stated" — said, 2.
- mestate: "[TOLD in world meeting] estate is a place; response to a press not stated" — said, 2.
- mschool: "[TOLD in world meeting] school is a school; response to a press not stated" — said, 3.
- mhall: "[TOLD in world meeting] entrance_hall is a hall; response to a press not stated" — said, 3.
- mrise: "[TOLD in world meeting] attendance rose" — said, 2.
- mreach: "[TOLD in world meeting] bus_route reaches the estate" — said, 2.
- mbecause: "[TOLD in world meeting] line mrise BECAUSE line mreach" — said, 2.
- mrepaint: "[TOLD in world meeting] school REPAINTED entrance_hall" — said, 3.
- mdenied: "[TOLD in world meeting] NOT [line mrise BECAUSE line mreach]" — said, 4.

Hmm — the thing names: should I use underscores in thing names (head_teacher, bus_route, entrance_hall, canteen_budget)? Yes, Prolog atoms with underscores are standard. The line ids should not end in underscore+number. My ids: gov, min, ht, att, rise, budget, discuss, matt, mroute, mestate, mschool, mhall, mrise, mreach, mbecause, mrepaint, mdenied. Good.

Wait — "min" as an id... fine. "ht" fine.

Hmm, one concern: the thing name "minutes" — in Prolog, kind(minutes, record). Fine.

Now, the table in section 1: Number | Standing | Content | Source mark | Sentence. I'll present the 17 lines in order.

Let me order them: actual ledger first (by sentence), then told world. Or by sentence? Let me group: actual ledger lines, then told world lines. Actually, let me order by sentence and within by line kind. I'll present:

Actual ledger:
1 | GIVEN | governors is a group; response to a press not stated | said | 1
2 | GIVEN | minutes is a record; response to a press not stated | said | 1
3 | GIVEN | head_teacher is a person; response to a press not stated | said | 1
4 | GIVEN | attendance is a measure; response to a press not stated | said | 1
5 | GIVEN | attendance rose | said | 1
6 | GIVEN | canteen_budget is a budget; response to a press not stated | said | 5
7 | CLAIMED | governors DISCUSSED canteen_budget | said | 5

Told world meeting:
8 | TOLD in world meeting | attendance is a measure; response to a press not stated | said | 2
9 | TOLD in world meeting | bus_route is a bus route; response to a press not stated | said | 2
10 | TOLD in world meeting | estate is a place; response to a press not stated | said | 2
11 | TOLD in world meeting | attendance rose | said | 2
12 | TOLD in world meeting | bus_route reaches the estate | said | 2
13 | TOLD in world meeting | line 11 BECAUSE line 12 | said | 2
14 | TOLD in world meeting | school is a school; response to a press not stated | said | 3
15 | TOLD in world meeting | entrance_hall is a hall; response to a press not stated | said | 3
16 | TOLD in world meeting | school REPAINTED entrance_hall | said | 3
17 | TOLD in world meeting | NOT [line 11 BECAUSE line 12] | said | 4

Hmm — in the table, the "Number" column: should I use the line ids (gov, min, ...) or sequential numbers? The language says "Number: 1, 2, 3, or a short name such as p1". The table column is "Number". I'll use the line ids in the table so they match the JSON. Actually, the table's Number column and the JSON's line ids should match for the checker... well, the checker reads the JSON. The table is for the human. Let me use the ids in the table (gov, min, ht, ...). Hmm, but the task's table says "Number". Using short names is allowed ("or a short name such as p1"). I'll use the ids. And lines point at each other by id (line 11 → mrise, etc.). In the table, I'll write "line mrise BECAUSE line mreach". Let me use the ids consistently in the table and JSON.

Actually, for readability, let me use the ids in the table: gov, min, ht, att, rise, budget, discuss, matt, mroute, mestate, mschool, mhall, mrise, mreach, mbecause, mrepaint, mdenied. And the pointing lines: "line mrise BECAUSE line mreach" and "NOT [line mrise BECAUSE line mreach]".

Hmm, wait — but the numbers 1-17 in the table are nicer for humans. But then pointing by number would use 11, 12. And the JSON ids would be... the guide says ids are short names. Let me just use the ids in both, with the table's Number column showing the id. The task allows "a short name". OK.

Hmm, actually, let me reconsider using plain numbers 1-17 as ids in the JSON too. The guide: "Line ids: Short lower-case letters or words with no spaces (a, b, lamp, since1)." Numbers like "1", "2" are also allowed ("1, 2, 3, or a short name"). Example_A uses numeric ids ("1", "2", ... "k1"). Example_P14 uses letters (a, b, c...). Both work. Numeric ids with line(1). etc. are fine. But then the told world lines would be 8-17. Pointing: "line 11 BECAUSE line 12". That's clean and matches example_A's style. Hmm, but example_A mixes numbers and k1. 

I'll use numeric ids 1-17 for simplicity and match the "Number" column. Wait, but the guide says ids are "short lower-case letters or words with no spaces" — numbers are fine per the language definition ("1, 2, 3"). JSON keys can be "1", "2", etc. (strings). Prolog: line(1). — hmm, line(1) with an integer. example_A.pl uses line(1). line(2). — yes, integers work in Prolog. OK, numeric ids 1-17.

Hmm, but wait — in example_A.json, the line ids are "1", "2", ... "12", "k1" as JSON keys (strings). And the Prolog uses line(1). (integers). So the driver handles string→atom/number conversion. To be safe, maybe use atom ids (letters) like example_P14, since line(a). with an atom is unambiguous. Hmm, but example_A uses integers and it's listed as an example with its .pl file. 

Let me use letter ids like P14: a, b, c, d, e, f, g (actual) and h, i, j, k, l, m, n, o, p, q (told)? That's 17 ids: a-g for actual (7 lines), h-q for told (10 lines). Hmm, or meaningful ids. Let me use meaningful short ids — they're clearer:

Actual: gov, min, ht, att, rise, budget, discuss
Told: matt, mroute, mestate, mschool, mhall, mrise, mreach, mbecause, mrepaint, mdenied

These are unique, lowercase, no spaces, don't end in underscore+number. Good. In the table, the Number column shows these ids. Pointing lines use them. OK, decided.

Wait, hmm, one more consideration: "att" could be confused with something, but it's fine. And "min" — fine. "ht" — fine.

Now let me reconsider the Prolog for the told world. The guide: "A TOLD or SUPPOSED line uses the same clauses; its case and case_kind fields tell the checker which world it belongs to. Every line of one world carries the same case name. A told world does not inherit the actual ledger; state inside it every fact its argument needs."

So the meeting world needs all its facts stated inside it: mrise (attendance rose), mreach (route reaches estate), and the thing lines. Good — I have them.

Now, the claim_because in the told world: claim_because(mbecause, rose(attendance), reaches(bus_route, estate)) :- line(mbecause). The effect rose(attendance) matches mrise's holds(rose(attendance)). The cause reaches(bus_route, estate) matches mreach's holds(reaches(bus_route, estate)). Good — same terms.

The denial: denied_because(mdenied, rose(attendance), reaches(bus_route, estate)) :- line(mdenied). Same terms. Good.

Now let me write the final answer. Let me also prepare the "leftover" strings:

1. "Sentence 1: The governors' minutes recorded the head teacher's explanation for — attribution: the minutes are a report and the explanation is the head teacher's reported speech; the recorded contents are TOLD in world meeting; the minutes', the head teacher's and the rise's existence are GIVEN in the actual ledger; the explanation's content follows in sentence 2."
2. "Sentence 2: She said — attribution of speech; the content is TOLD in world meeting."
3. "Sentence 2: new ... now — time words: the route is recently introduced and its reaching the estate is current; the implied earlier state (the route not reaching the estate) is not stated; timing is outside the language."
4. "Sentence 3: The minutes noted that — attribution; the minutes' contents are TOLD in world meeting."
5. "Sentence 3: also — connective of addition; marks the repainting as a further item in the minutes; no separate content."
6. "Sentence 3: over the summer — when; timing is outside the language."
7. "Sentence 4: Later in the meeting — when; her later statement came after the explanation; sequence beyond a chain is outside the language."
8. "Sentence 4: she said she did not think — attribution of speech and belief; the denied content is TOLD in world meeting."
9. "Sentence 5: moved on — figure of speech for proceeding to the next item of business; no physical movement is committed."

Bin entries (JSON): same content with sentence numbers.

Now, readings_chosen:
1. "Sentence 1: open readings: the narrator asserts as an actual fact that the minutes recorded the explanation, or the sentence is an attribution scoping its contents to a told world. Chosen: the attribution reading — the minutes are a report, their contents TOLD in world meeting; the minutes', the head teacher's and the rise's existence are GIVEN in the actual ledger."
2. "Sentence 1: open readings: 'the rise in attendance' presupposes a real rise, or it is only the topic of the explanation. Chosen: presupposition — attendance rose is GIVEN in the actual ledger."
3. "Sentence 2: open readings: 'reached the estate' as physical touching or as the route extending to or serving the estate. Chosen: extends to or serves — recorded as the fact that bus_route reaches the estate, not as a physical happening."
4. "Sentence 2: open readings: 'new' and 'now' as descriptions to keep or as timing. Chosen: timing — binned, with the implied earlier state (the route not reaching the estate) left unstated."
5. "Sentence 4: open readings: 'because of the new bus route' as the same cause she gave in sentence 2 (the route reaching the estate) or as the route's mere existence. Chosen: the same cause, so the denial engages with her earlier claim inside the meeting world."
6. "Sentence 4: open readings: her two statements belong to one told world (the meeting) or to separate worlds (the minutes' world and a later-statement world). Chosen: one world, meeting — she said both at the same meeting and the minutes are its record, so the claimed and the denied cause meet."
7. "Sentence 5: open readings: 'moved on' as physical movement or as a figure for proceeding to the next item of business. Chosen: the figure — binned; the plain fact, that the governors discussed the canteen budget, is the line."

Hmm, also maybe a reading about "the minutes noted" vs "the minutes recorded" — both attributions, same handling. Covered by reading 1/4. OK.

Also — a reading about whether sentence 3's repainting is in the meeting world: covered by reading 6 (one world). OK.

Count section:
- lines said: 17
- lines filled in: 0
- lines usual case: 0
- sentences that lost something to the bin: 5

Hmm, wait — let me double-check the "lines said" count once more. 7 actual + 10 told = 17. Yes.

Hmm, hold on. Let me reconsider whether the actual-ledger GIVEN lines should include "attendance rose". Actually, I realize there might be an issue: is the rise part of the reported content only? Let me think about the counterfactual: if the narrator didn't believe attendance rose, would they write "the head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance"? Using "the" presupposes it. Yes, GIVEN. Keep. And I record the reading choice. Good.

Also — hmm, one more: should the actual ledger include a GIVEN fact that the head teacher gave an explanation? No — binned as attribution. The T10D example bins "The account says" entirely and doesn't write "the account says X" as an actual fact. OK.

Now — one more consideration about the told world and the actual ledger: the actual ledger has "attendance rose" (GIVEN). The meeting world has "attendance rose" (TOLD). The meeting world also has the BECAUSE and its denial. Since the world doesn't inherit the actual ledger, the world's argument is self-contained: mrise, mreach, mbecause, mdenied. Good.

Now — is there anything else in the text? Let me re-read: "The governors' minutes recorded the head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance. She said attendance had risen because the new bus route now reached the estate. The minutes noted that the school had also repainted the entrance hall over the summer. Later in the meeting, she said she did not think the rise in attendance was because of the new bus route. The governors moved on to discuss the canteen budget."

Everything covered. 

Now, the PARKED list:
- "The head teacher gives the bus route as the cause of the rise and later denies it, without offering an alternative; inside the meeting world the rise is left with both a claimed and a denied cause and no stated substitute."
- Maybe: "The repainting is recorded in the minutes beside the attendance explanation, but no link between them is stated; the ledger keeps them as separate told facts." — hmm, is this a judgement? It's an observation. The parking place is for judgements about the reasoning and ideas for procedures. Let me keep one or two lines. I'll include the first one and maybe a second about the minutes' two items having no stated link.

Actually, the PARKED list is optional-ish ("go in a PARKED list at the very end, one line each"). I'll include two brief lines.

Now let me also double check the JSON validity: no trailing commas, double quotes, etc.

Let me write the "text" fields for lines carefully, matching the language's words.

One more thought — the line text for things: "governors is a group; response to a press not stated". The language's thing line shape: "NAME is a KIND; it answers a press as one of the six response classes; it may be a DOER". So: "governors is a group; it answers a press as not stated". Hmm, "not stated" is one of the six response classes (the six: fixed; heavy and standing; heavy and loose; light and loose; not a body; not stated). So the response class is "not stated". Let me write: "governors is a group; response to a press: not stated". Or following T10D: "window is a window; response to a press not stated". I'll use that form: "governors is a group; response to a press not stated".

OK. Also, for the happening lines, the shape is "NAME: DOER VERB THING [DIRECTION]". My happening lines: "governors DISCUSSED canteen_budget" and "school REPAINTED entrance_hall". No direction. Fine. In the table, I'll write them as facts/happenings: "governors DISCUSSED canteen_budget". Hmm, should I give the happening a name? The happening's name is its number/id. The line id is the name. OK.

Let me write the table now. I'll use the ids as the Number column.

Actually, hmm, wait. Let me reconsider the ordering and whether to include a "names" mapping for the human reader. The task's section 2 is "Name the things" — the names are in the lines. I don't need a separate names section. OK.

Let me also reconsider: should the told-world thing lines come before the facts? Order within the world: things first, then facts, then the BECAUSE, then the repainting, then the denial. Fine.

One more check — the "sentence" field for each line: integer. gov: 1, min: 1, ht: 1, att: 1, rise: 1, budget: 5, discuss: 5, matt: 2, mroute: 2, mestate: 2, mrise: 2, mreach: 2, mbecause: 2, mschool: 3, mhall: 3, mrepaint: 3, mdenied: 4. Good.

Now, the "standing" field values: "GIVEN", "CLAIMED", "TOLD in world meeting". The guide says standing: "CLAIMED" | "GIVEN" | "SUPPOSED in case <name>" | "TOLD in world <name>". So "TOLD in world meeting". Good.

Let me write it all out now.

Actually — one more sanity check on the bin: sentence 2's "new" and "now". Hmm, "now reached" — I binned "now". But the fact "bus_route reaches the estate" — the "now" (current state) is dropped from the line and retained in the bin. OK. And "new" binned. Fine.

Also, sentence 1: "the rise in attendance" — I should double check: is "rise" a thing? No — I treat "attendance rose" as a fact. The noun "rise" is the event. Fine.

Also — "the head teacher's explanation" — the explanation is an event/thing? It's binned as attribution. OK.

Let me also think: does anything need a "Habit" or "General line"? No. "Tendency"? No. "Depends"? No. "Event" (kind 14)? No. "Only-ways"? No. "Exception"? No. "Causal word" (INFLUENCE MAKES/LETS...)? Sentence 2's "because" is a BECAUSE claim, not a causal word like "let" or "helped". No causal words. OK.

What about "LIKE"? No. "SO THAT"? No (moved on is binned; no purpose). OK.

Alright. Let me also prepare the count of "sentences that lost something to the bin": 5 (all sentences).

Now, writing the output. The task says print:
1. The ledger (table)
2. The bin (list)
3. Words I split
4. Readings I chose
5. The count

Then (per the guide) the JSON block, then TRANSLATION COMPLETE. And PARKED somewhere before the JSON (at the very end of the prose). Hmm — "The parking place: ... go in a PARKED list at the very end, one line each." I'll put PARKED after section 5 and before the JSON. Actually, the user says "ending with the JSON block and then the words TRANSLATION COMPLETE". So the JSON is the last block, then TRANSLATION COMPLETE. PARKED must come before the JSON. I'll put it right after section 5.

Hmm, wait — actually, re-reading: "Close with: TRANSLATION COMPLETE. Then wait." (task 39) and the parking place says PARKED at the very end. There's tension. The user's instruction resolves it: "ending with the JSON block and then the words TRANSLATION COMPLETE". So: sections 1-5, PARKED, JSON, TRANSLATION COMPLETE. Good.

Let me write everything.

For the table, I'll use markdown.

Let me draft the JSON carefully:

```json
{
  "paragraph": "B05",
  "whose": "Claude (Anthropic), under L82",
  "sentences": {
    "1": "The governors' minutes recorded the head teacher's explanation for the rise in attendance.",
    "2": "She said attendance had risen because the new bus route now reached the estate.",
    "3": "The minutes noted that the school had also repainted the entrance hall over the summer.",
    "4": "Later in the meeting, she said she did not think the rise in attendance was because of the new bus route.",
    "5": "The governors moved on to discuss the canteen budget."
  },
  "bin": [
    {"sentence": 1, "words": "The governors' minutes recorded the head teacher's explanation for", "reason": "Attribution: the minutes are a report and the explanation is the head teacher's reported speech; the recorded contents are TOLD in world meeting; the minutes', the head teacher's and the rise's existence are GIVEN in the actual ledger; the explanation's content follows in sentence 2."},
    {"sentence": 2, "words": "She said", "reason": "Attribution of speech; the content is TOLD in world meeting."},
    {"sentence": 2, "words": "new ... now", "reason": "Time words: the route is recently introduced and its reaching the estate is current; the implied earlier state (the route not reaching the estate) is not stated; timing is outside the language."},
    {"sentence": 3, "words": "The minutes noted that", "reason": "Attribution; the minutes' contents are TOLD in world meeting."},
    {"sentence": 3, "words": "also", "reason": "Connective of addition; marks the repainting as a further item in the minutes; no separate content."},
    {"sentence": 3, "words": "over the summer", "reason": "When; timing is outside the language."},
    {"sentence": 4, "words": "Later in the meeting", "reason": "When; her later statement came after the explanation; sequence beyond a chain is outside the language."},
    {"sentence": 4, "words": "she said she did not think", "reason": "Attribution of speech and belief; the denied content is TOLD in world meeting."},
    {"sentence": 5, "words": "moved on", "reason": "Figure of speech for proceeding to the next item of business; no physical movement is committed."}
  ],
  "leftover": [
    "Sentence 1: The governors' minutes recorded the head teacher's explanation for — Attribution: the minutes are a report and the explanation is the head teacher's reported speech; the recorded contents are TOLD in world meeting; the minutes', the head teacher's and the rise's existence are GIVEN in the actual ledger; the explanation's content follows in sentence 2.",
    "Sentence 2: She said — Attribution of speech; the content is TOLD in world meeting.",
    "Sentence 2: new ... now — Time words: the route is recently introduced and its reaching the estate is current; the implied earlier state (the route not reaching the estate) is not stated; timing is outside the language.",
    "Sentence 3: The minutes noted that — Attribution; the minutes' contents are TOLD in world meeting.",
    "Sentence 3: also — Connective of addition; marks the repainting as a further item in the minutes; no separate content.",
    "Sentence 3: over the summer — When; timing is outside the language.",
    "Sentence 4: Later in the meeting — When; her later statement came after the explanation; sequence beyond a chain is outside the language.",
    "Sentence 4: she said she did not think — Attribution of speech and belief; the denied content is TOLD in world meeting.",
    "Sentence 5: moved on — Figure of speech for proceeding to the next item of business; no physical movement is committed."
  ],
  "whatifs": [],
  "lines": {
    "gov": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 1, "standing": "GIVEN", "text": "[GIVEN] governors is a group; response to a press not stated", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(governors, group) :- line(gov).", "body(governors, not_stated) :- line(gov)."]},
    "min": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 1, "standing": "GIVEN", "text": "[GIVEN] minutes is a record; response to a press not stated", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(minutes, record) :- line(min).", "body(minutes, not_stated) :- line(min)."]},
    "ht": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 1, "standing": "GIVEN", "text": "[GIVEN] head_teacher is a person; response to a press not stated", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(head_teacher, person) :- line(ht).", "body(head_teacher, not_stated) :- line(ht)."]},
    "att": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 1, "standing": "GIVEN", "text": "[GIVEN] attendance is a measure; response to a press not stated", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(attendance, measure) :- line(att).", "body(attendance, not_stated) :- line(att)."]},
    "rise": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 1, "standing": "GIVEN", "text": "[GIVEN] attendance rose", "prolog_clauses": ["holds(rose(attendance)) :- line(rise)."]},
    "budget": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 5, "standing": "GIVEN", "text": "[GIVEN] canteen_budget is a budget; response to a press not stated", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(canteen_budget, budget) :- line(budget).", "body(canteen_budget, not_stated) :- line(budget)."]},
    "discuss": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 5, "standing": "CLAIMED", "text": "[CLAIMED] governors DISCUSSED canteen_budget", "prolog_clauses": ["holds(discussed(governors, canteen_budget)) :- line(discuss)."]},
    "matt": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 2, "standing": "TOLD in world meeting", "text": "[TOLD in world meeting] attendance is a measure; response to a press not stated", "case": "meeting", "case_kind": "told", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(attendance, measure) :- line(matt).", "body(attendance, not_stated) :- line(matt)."]},
    "mroute": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 2, "standing": "TOLD in world meeting", "text": "[TOLD in world meeting] bus_route is a bus route; response to a press not stated", "case": "meeting", "case_kind": "told", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(bus_route, bus_route) :- line(mroute).", "body(bus_route, not_stated) :- line(mroute)."]},
    "mestate": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 2, "standing": "TOLD in world meeting", "text": "[TOLD in world meeting] estate is a place; response to a press not stated", "case": "meeting", "case_kind": "told", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(estate, place) :- line(mestate).", "body(estate, not_stated) :- line(mestate)."]},
    "mrise": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 2, "standing": "TOLD in world meeting", "text": "[TOLD in world meeting] attendance rose", "case": "meeting", "case_kind": "told", "prolog_clauses": ["holds(rose(attendance)) :- line(mrise)."]},
    "mreach": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 2, "standing": "TOLD in world meeting", "text": "[TOLD in world meeting] bus_route reaches the estate", "case": "meeting", "case_kind": "told", "prolog_clauses": ["holds(reaches(bus_route, estate)) :- line(mreach)."]},
    "mbecause": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 2, "standing": "TOLD in world meeting", "text": "[TOLD in world meeting] line mrise BECAUSE line mreach", "case": "meeting", "case_kind": "told", "prolog_clauses": ["claim_because(mbecause, rose(attendance), reaches(bus_route, estate)) :- line(mbecause)."]},
    "mschool": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 3, "standing": "TOLD in world meeting", "text": "[TOLD in world meeting] school is a school; response to a press not stated", "case": "meeting", "case_kind": "told", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(school, school) :- line(mschool).", "body(school, not_stated) :- line(mschool)."]},
    "mhall": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 3, "standing": "TOLD in world meeting", "text": "[TOLD in world meeting] entrance_hall is a hall; response to a press not stated", "case": "meeting", "case_kind": "told", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(entrance_hall, hall) :- line(mhall).", "body(entrance_hall, not_stated) :- line(mhall)."]},
    "mrepaint": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 3, "standing": "TOLD in world meeting", "text": "[TOLD in world meeting] school REPAINTED entrance_hall", "case": "meeting", "case_kind": "told", "prolog_clauses": ["holds(repainted(school, entrance_hall)) :- line(mrepaint)."]},
    "mdenied": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 4, "standing": "TOLD in world meeting", "text": "[TOLD in world meeting] NOT [line mrise BECAUSE line mreach]", "case": "meeting", "case_kind": "told", "prolog_clauses": ["denied_because(mdenied, rose(attendance), reaches(bus_route, estate)) :- line(mdenied)."]}
  },
  "words_split": [],
  "readings_chosen": [
    "Sentence 1: open readings: the narrator asserts as an actual fact that the minutes recorded the explanation, or the sentence is an attribution scoping its contents to a told world. Chosen: the attribution reading — the minutes are a report, their contents TOLD in world meeting; the minutes', the head teacher's and the rise's existence are GIVEN in the actual ledger.",
    "Sentence 1: open readings: 'the rise in attendance' presupposes a real rise, or it is only the topic of the explanation. Chosen: presupposition — attendance rose is GIVEN in the actual ledger.",
    "Sentence 2: open readings: 'reached the estate' as physical touching or as the route extending to or serving the estate. Chosen: extends to or serves — recorded as the fact that bus_route reaches the estate, not as a physical happening.",
    "Sentence 2: open readings: 'new' and 'now' kept as descriptions or binned as timing. Chosen: timing — binned, with the implied earlier state (the route not reaching the estate) left unstated.",
    "Sentence 4: open readings: 'because of the new bus route' as the same cause she gave in sentence 2 (the route reaching the estate) or as the route's mere existence. Chosen: the same cause, so the denial engages with her earlier claim inside the meeting world.",
    "Sentence 4: open readings: her two statements belong to one told world (the meeting) or to separate worlds (the minutes' world and a later-statement world). Chosen: one world, meeting — she said both at the same meeting and the minutes are its record, so the claimed and the denied cause meet.",
    "Sentence 5: open readings: 'moved on' as physical movement or as a figure for proceeding to the next item of business. Chosen: the figure — binned; the plain fact, that the governors discussed the canteen budget, is the line."
  ]
}
```

Wait, I should double check the em-dashes and quotes in JSON — em dashes are fine in JSON strings. Apostrophes in "governors'" are fine inside double-quoted strings. Good.

Hmm, one thing: in "leftover", the format is 'Sentence N: <words> — <reason>'. I have that. Good.

Also, the guide says the bin entries have "sentence" as integer. For sentence 1's entry, sentence: 1. Good.

Let me double-check every sentence appears as a line sentence or bin sentence: sentences 1,2,3,4,5 all appear. Good.

Let me double check every line has all five parts: mark, sentence, standing, text, (case/case_kind for told). In the table: Number, Standing, Content, Source mark, Sentence. Good.

Every line I added carries "filled in" or "usual case" — I added none, so N/A. But wait, is that OK? The final check says "Every line you added carries 'filled in' or 'usual case'." I added no lines, so the check is vacuously satisfied. But hmm — the mdenied line involves a reading. I've recorded it in readings_chosen. And the reading about the world structure. I think it's fine. But let me reconsider whether any line should be "filled in":

- The rise line (GIVEN, actual): the presupposition is the writer's; "said" is right (GIVEN lines are what the writer takes for granted — said).
- mdenied: said (she said it).
- All others: said.

Hmm, actually, wait. Let me reconsider the mdenied line once more. The rule 15: "Where part was said and part is your choice, split the line if you can. If you cannot, mark the whole line filled in and say in it which part you added."

The mdenied line: "NOT [line mrise BECAUSE line mreach]". The "NOT [...]" structure and the pointing are mine, but they're translation, not addition. The cause identification (mreach) is my reading. Hmm. If I were strict, I'd mark it filled in and say "the denial is hers; the cause is read as line mreach". 

But actually — think about mbecause too: "line mrise BECAUSE line mreach" — the pointing is mine (translation). Both lines are translations of explicit text. The "said" mark means the writer wrote the content. The head teacher said the BECAUSE and the denial. Both "said". The pointing structure is how the language represents it. I'm confident both are "said".

To be extra transparent, I could add to mdenied's text: "NOT [line mrise BECAUSE line mreach]; the cause is read as the route reaching the estate". Hmm, that clutters. The readings_chosen covers it. Keep it clean.

OK, one more consideration — 0 filled-in lines and 0 usual-case lines. Is that suspicious? The text is short and mostly reported speech; the translator's job is to scope the attributions and record the content. No missing steps, no general rules, no tendencies. I think 0 is honest. The readings are recorded. Good.

Hmm, actually — wait. Let me reconsider one thing: the actual ledger's "attendance rose" (GIVEN). Is this line "said"? The writer wrote "the rise in attendance" — the presupposition is the writer's. GIVEN + said. Yes.

And one more: should there be a GIVEN thing line for "the meeting"? I binned "Later in the meeting" as when. The meeting itself isn't a thing in any happening. Skip. OK.

And "the summer" — binned. "the estate" — told world thing. "the entrance hall" — told world thing. "the canteen budget" — actual thing. "the school" — told world thing (only appears in the minutes' content). Hmm wait — does the school appear anywhere in the actual ledger? Sentence 3: "the school had also repainted the entrance hall" — all inside the minutes' noting. So school is only in the told world. Yes, mschool is TOLD. Good.

Hmm, but wait — the head teacher: she appears in the actual ledger (sentence 1: "the head teacher's explanation"). Her existence is GIVEN in the actual ledger (ht). And she's the one whose speech is reported. In the told world, she's not a participant (her saying is binned). So no head_teacher thing in the told world. OK.

Hmm, hold on — but the told world is "what was said at the meeting". The head teacher is the speaker. Should the world record that she spoke? The attribution is binned. The world contains only the content. I think that's right per the rules (bin the attribution, TOLD the content).

OK. Now, let me reconsider one potential issue: the world name "meeting". The guide says TOLD lines have "case": "<name>" and "case_kind": "told". I'm using case "meeting". Good.

Alright, let me also double-check the Prolog clauses once more:
- Every clause ends with a full stop. Yes.
- Every clause has line(<id>) as the first body goal. Yes: "kind(governors, group) :- line(gov)." — the body is line(gov). Yes.
- claim_because(mbecause, rose(attendance), reaches(bus_route, estate)) :- line(mbecause). — the effect and cause terms match the holds(...) of mrise and mreach. Yes: mrise has holds(rose(attendance)), mreach has holds(reaches(bus_route, estate)). Good.
- denied_because(mdenied, rose(attendance), reaches(bus_route, estate)) :- line(mdenied). Same terms. Good.

One question: should the told world's clauses be namespaced? The guide says the case/case_kind fields tell the checker the world. So the clauses are written plainly and the checker handles world separation. OK.

Now — hmm, one thing I want to double-check: in the told world, I have kind(attendance, measure) (matt) and the actual ledger has kind(attendance, measure) (att). Same atom. If the checker doesn't namespace properly, there could be duplication — but that's the checker's business; the guide says the case field handles it. T10D does the same (window, letter only in the world; account in actual). Actually in T10D, the world things (window, letter) are distinct from the actual thing (account), so no overlap. In my case, attendance appears in both. Hmm. Is that a problem? The guide says "A told world does not inherit the actual ledger; state inside it every fact its argument needs." So stating attendance's thing line inside the world is required. The atom name overlap with the actual ledger is presumably handled by world namespacing. I'll keep it. Alternatively, I could rename the told-world attendance to something else, but that would be less faithful (it's the same attendance). Keep.

OK, let me also think about whether "discussed" needs a thing line for "canteen_budget" — yes, budget (GIVEN, said, sentence 5). Have it. And "governors" — gov. Have it.

Now, the final output. Let me write the five sections, PARKED, then the JSON, then TRANSLATION COMPLETE.

For section 1 (the table), columns: Number | Standing | Content | Source mark | Sentence.

Let me write it:

| Number | Standing | Content | Source mark | Sentence |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| gov | GIVEN | governors is a group; response to a press not stated | said | 1 |
...

For the TOLD lines, standing: "TOLD in world meeting".

Section 2 (the bin): list each entry: words + reason.

Section 3 (words I split): none. "None." 

Section 4 (readings I chose): the 7 readings.

Section 5 (the count): lines said 17, lines filled in 0, lines usual case 0, sentences that lost something to the bin 5.

PARKED: 1-2 lines.

Then the JSON.

Then TRANSLATION COMPLETE.

Let me write it all out. I'll keep the prose sections concise but complete.

One more check on the count: "lines said" = 17. Let me recount the JSON lines: gov, min, ht, att, rise, budget, discuss (7), matt, mroute, mestate, mrise, mreach, mbecause, mschool, mhall, mrepaint, mdenied (10). Total 17. All "said". Good.

Also — verbs without shape: "discuss" (line discuss) and "repaint" (line mrepaint) are not in the shape book. Should I note them? The report carries "the verbs with no shape". In my output, I could note in the count section or a note: verbs with no shape: discuss (line discuss), repaint (line mrepaint), reach (line mreach, treated as a fact of extent, not a happening). Hmm, the count section asks for specific things. Let me add a note after the count about verbs with no shape, since the checker's report carries them. Actually, the five sections are specified; I'll add the verbs-with-no-shape note inside section 5 or as an extra note. The task's section 5 is "The count: lines said, lines filled in, lines usual case, sentences that lost something to the bin." I'll add the verbs note as a brief extra line in section 5 — it's useful for the checker. Or I could skip it. Let me include a short note: "Verbs with no shape in the shape book: discuss (line discuss), repaint (line mrepaint); 'reached' is written as a fact of the route's extent, not as a physical happening." That's helpful. I'll add it as a note in section 5.

Hmm, actually, "reach" — in example_A, "the cold reached the balcony plants" is written as holds(reached(the_cold, balcony_plants)) — a fact. And it's counted? example_A's translation_gauge lists verbs_without_shape... actually example_A.json doesn't have translation_gauge (that's T10D). T10D lists "open" as a verb without shape. For me: "discuss", "repaint" are verbs in happenings without shapes. "reached" is written as a fact (like example_A's "reached"). I'll note discuss and repaint.

OK, writing the final output now.

Actually, hold on. Let me reconsider whether "discuss" and "repaint" should be happenings at all, given they have no shape. The language: Happening "NAME: DOER VERB THING [DIRECTION]" — "Checked through the verb's shape. A verb missing from the shape book is reported 'not checked' and counted." So happenings with unlisted verbs are allowed, just reported "not checked". Fine, keep them as happenings. And "For people, groups and rules, only the causal words are tested." So for governors (a group) and school (an institution), the physical laws aren't tested anyway. Good.

Also — should "school REPAINTED entrance_hall" have a result line (entrance_hall BECOMES repainted)? The text doesn't state a result separately; the repainting is the happening. Skip. OK.

Final answer time. Let me make sure the JSON has no trailing commas and is valid. I'll be careful.

Also the "whose" field: "Claude (Anthropic), under L82". Good.

Let me write it.