Let me work through this task.

The text: B07
"The shopkeeper told the stocktaker what had come in that week. She described the new delivery of tinned fruit, stacked on the middle shelf by the window. She listed the items that were running low: candles, matches, and writing paper. She mentioned that the delivery van had arrived later than usual on Tuesday. The stocktaker wrote down the shelf numbers as she spoke."

This is a report of what someone said — a told world. The shopkeeper told the stocktaker things. So the content of her speech is TOLD in a named world (e.g., "shopkeeper_world" or "told_world").

Let me number the sentences:
1. The shopkeeper told the stocktaker what had come in that week.
2. She described the new delivery of tinned fruit, stacked on the middle shelf by the window.
3. She listed the items that were running low: candles, matches, and writing paper.
4. She mentioned that the delivery van had arrived later than usual on Tuesday.
5. The stocktaker wrote down the shelf numbers as she spoke.

Sentence 1: "The shopkeeper told the stocktaker what had come in that week." — The attribution "told" goes to the bin; the content is TOLD in a named world. What had come in that week = goods arrived in the shop that week. Actually sentence 1 is a general statement that she told him. The content "what had come in that week" is vague — it's the topic. The actual details come in sentences 2-4.

Sentence 2: She described the new delivery of tinned fruit, stacked on the middle shelf by the window. — TOLD content: a delivery of tinned fruit came in; it is stacked on the middle shelf by the window. "described" is attribution → bin. The content: tinned fruit delivery stacked on middle shelf by window.

Sentence 3: She listed the items that were running low: candles, matches, and writing paper. — TOLD content: candles, matches, writing paper are running low. "listed" → bin (attribution). "running low" — a state.

Sentence 4: She mentioned that the delivery van had arrived later than usual on Tuesday. — TOLD content: the delivery van arrived later than usual on Tuesday. "later than usual" — comparison of time; time goes to bin ("When, beyond the order of a chain"). Hmm, "later than usual on Tuesday" — the arrival is TOLD; the timing "later than usual" and "on Tuesday" go to the bin (when). Actually the arrival itself can be stated: the delivery van arrived. The "later than usual" is degree/comparison — bin. "on Tuesday" is when — bin.

Sentence 5: The stocktaker wrote down the shelf numbers as she spoke. — This is actual action, not told. CLAIMED: the stocktaker wrote down the shelf numbers. "as she spoke" — a temporal link; the writing happened while she spoke — that's a "when" — bin? Or GIVEN. The order of a chain is allowed but "as she spoke" is simultaneous timing — bin it as timing.

Things: shopkeeper, stocktaker, delivery of tinned fruit (tinned fruit), middle shelf, window, candles, matches, writing paper, delivery van, shelf numbers.

Happenings: The stocktaker wrote down the shelf numbers. That's a happening: DOER stocktaker VERB wrote down THING shelf numbers. "write down" — not in the shape book (press, release, hold, press then release). So it's "not checked" verb. Actually writing is not a physical press in the shape-book sense. The shape book lists: throw, toss, hurl (press then release); push, pull, lean on, hit (press); drop, let go of, open a fist on (release); hold, close a fist on (hold). "wrote down" is not among these — so it's reported "not checked".

Also the van arrived — "arrive" not in shape book. Stacked — passive, the fruit is stacked on the shelf. That's a fact (location), not necessarily a happening. Actually "stacked on the middle shelf by the window" describes the fruit's position — a fact: the tinned fruit is on the middle shelf, the middle shelf is by the window.

"running low" — a state of the items: candles running low, etc. That's a fact with a stage? It's a tendency maybe: "already heading for" — running low means diminishing stock. Could write as tendency: candles were already heading for running out? Hmm, "running low" is the text's own words for a tendency. Tendency line: THING was, or was NOT, already heading for [content]. "candles were heading for being low" — but "running low" is itself the state. Simpler: fact: candles are running low. The language allows free descriptions in facts. I'll write facts: holds(running_low(candles)) etc.

Let me now decide the structure.

The whole speech content is TOLD in world "shopkeeper_report". The frame sentence 1 asserts the shopkeeper told the stocktaker — the attribution goes to bin, per the rules: "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." And example T10D: "The account says opening the window caused..." — the account's existence GIVEN, contents TOLD in account_world.

So here: sentence 1's "The shopkeeper told the stocktaker" — attribution → bin. The content "what had come in that week" — this is the topic of the telling; the specific contents are given in sentences 2-4. Sentence 1 itself: goods came in that week — TOLD. Hmm, "what had come in that week" is a question-word content clause; it doesn't specify what. I could record it as TOLD: goods arrived in the shop that week. But "that week" is when → bin. So: TOLD: goods arrived. Actually the content of sentence 1 is just that she told him; the "what had come in" is deliberately unspecified and filled by 2-4. I'll put the telling event in the bin (attribution) and note that sentences 2-4 give the content. Maybe also a TOLD line: goods arrived in the shop — from "what had come in". Hmm. "came in" = arrived. I think it's worth a TOLD line: the shop got goods in that week. But "that week" is timing → bin. So: holds(arrived(goods)) in the told world. But goods is vague... The text: "what had come in that week" — the things that came in are the delivery of tinned fruit (and the van?). I'll write a TOLD line: goods arrived; and note in readings that "what had come in" is unspecified and filled by sentences 2-4.

Actually, simpler and safer: sentence 1's content clause is the topic; the actual reported contents are sentences 2-4. I'll bin the attribution and record sentence 1 as: TOLD line that goods arrived (with the specifics in later sentences). Let me include it: line "arrived": [TOLD in world telling] goods arrived at the shop. Mark: said. And bin "that week" (when).

Wait — but is the shop even mentioned? "The shopkeeper" implies a shop. The shop is a thing. I could name it "shop". The text doesn't say "shop" explicitly but "shopkeeper" implies it. I'll keep things to what's stated: the telling, the delivery, the shelf, the window, the items, the van, the shelf numbers, the stocktaker, the shopkeeper.

Things and their kinds:
- shopkeeper: a person (heavy and standing). Response class: heavy and standing (a person). The text doesn't say how she answers a press, but the language's list says "heavy and standing (a person)" — that's the class for a person. Rule 3: "If the text does not say how it answers a press, write 'not stated'. A class you guess is a filled-in line." Hmm — for a person, is "heavy and standing" a guess or the default? The list gives "heavy and standing (a person)" as the class. I think for people we can use the class as "usual case"? The example T10D used not_stated for window and letter. Example A: kind(the_cold, weather), kind(thermometer, measuring_device) — no body lines at all in example A! Interesting — example_A.json lines don't have body/... Actually example_A.pl has no body() clauses. Hmm, but the language says every thing in a happening must have a thing line with response class. The shopkeeper and stocktaker are in happenings (told, wrote down). Let me write thing lines with response classes: shopkeeper is a person; answers a press as heavy and standing — is that "said"? The text doesn't state it. I'd mark it "usual case" (something everyone assumes) — a person is heavy and standing. That fits "usual case" nicely. Or "not stated". The prompt says: "Where the text is silent on how a thing answers a press, write 'not stated'." So strictly: write "not stated". But then the class is not_stated. Hmm, but for people the list explicitly names "heavy and standing (a person)". I think the cleanest: thing line "shopkeeper is a person; answers a press as heavy and standing" marked "usual case". Actually rule: "A class you guess is a filled-in line." Is it a guess that a person is heavy and standing? It's the language's own classification. I'll mark "usual case" — something everyone assumes. Hmm, but the instruction says where silent write "not stated". Let me look at the trap: the checker uses response classes to work out strength. For a person pressing, etc. Here the only happening is "wrote down" which isn't in the shape book anyway. So response classes barely matter. I'll be safe: for shopkeeper and stocktaker, "response not stated" — no wait. Hmm.

Let me think about which is more defensible. The language's fixed list: "heavy and standing (a person)". This is the language telling us the class for a person. So writing "heavy and standing" for a person isn't a guess about the text; it's the language's classification. But the translator rules say write "not stated" when the text is silent. The examples: T10D used not_stated for window and letter (non-persons). No person example. I'll go with "not stated" for strict compliance? But then the checker can't tell strength for a person pressing... The checker "works strength out from the response classes". For "wrote down" there's no shape, so no strength query.

Hmm, actually, let me reconsider: the stocktaker wrote down the shelf numbers — the things in this happening: stocktaker (doer), shelf numbers (thing). Shelf numbers — what are they? They're marks/numbers on shelves. Kind: not stated / "marks". Response: not stated.

I'll write for people: "shopkeeper is a person; answers a press as heavy and standing" with mark "usual case". Reason: the language's own list assigns heavy-and-standing to a person; the text does not state it. Hmm, "usual case" is defined as "something everyone assumes" — yes, everyone assumes a person is heavy and standing. That fits. I'll do that. And for non-person things: not stated.

Actually wait. Let me re-read: "**Things.** Give every thing in a happening a thing line. Where the text is silent on how a thing answers a press, write 'not stated'." OK so the default is not stated. But for a person... The list includes "(a person)" as the exemplar of heavy and standing. I think either is defensible. I'll use "usual case" with heavy-and-standing for the two people, since it's the language's classification and "something everyone assumes". Hmm, but risk: the checker might treat a "usual case" thing line as an added line that does the writer's work — no, that's about conclusions.

Let me just go: people → heavy and standing, mark "usual case". Other things → not stated, mark "said" (the thing line itself is said — the existence of the thing is stated; only the response is not stated, which is written as "not stated" in the line itself, so the line is still "said").

Wait, in T10D the thing lines for window and letter are marked "said" with "response to a press not stated" in the text. Good, follow that.

Now, the happenings:
- The telling: shopkeeper told stocktaker — this is the frame; the telling itself... Is "told" a happening in the actual ledger? The attribution is binned. But the act of telling is an actual event: the shopkeeper spoke to the stocktaker. Sentence 5 says "as she spoke" — so she spoke (actual). I could have an actual-ledger fact: the shopkeeper spoke to the stocktaker. That's CLAIMED (sentence 1 asserts she told him). "told" = spoke. Happening: shopkeeper told stocktaker — verb "tell" not in shape book → not checked. Doer shopkeeper, verb told, thing stocktaker (well, "told the stocktaker what..." — the thing told is the content; the stocktaker is the recipient). Hmm. The happening shape: DOER VERB THING [DIRECTION]. "shopkeeper told stocktaker" — doer shopkeeper, verb told, thing stocktaker. And the content is TOLD-world lines.

Actually, per the T10D example, the telling/reporting verb's content goes to a told world, and the attribution phrase is binned. T10D didn't create an actual happening for "the account says". It binned "The account says" and put contents in account_world. But here sentence 5's "as she spoke" refers to her speaking, and the stocktaker wrote as she spoke — a link: the writing happened during the speaking. Since "when" goes to bin, the "as she spoke" part goes to bin. But then do I need a "spoke" fact? For the link "as she spoke" — it's timing → bin.

Hmm, but sentence 1 asserts the shopkeeper told the stocktaker something. That's an actual event: telling. I think I should record it: an actual-ledger happening "shopkeeper told stocktaker" — but the rules say the attribution goes to bin and content is TOLD. The T10D example binned "The account says" entirely and did NOT create an actual line for the account saying anything. It only made the account's existence GIVEN. Hmm, actually it made "account is an account" GIVEN, and everything else TOLD.

Following T10D closely: bin "The shopkeeper told the stocktaker" (attribution), and the contents in a told world. But sentence 5's "as she spoke" — the speaking is part of the frame. If I bin the telling, then "as she spoke" refers to the binned telling event. I can note that in the bin entry.

But wait — sentence 5: "The stocktaker wrote down the shelf numbers as she spoke." The writing is actual. The "as she spoke" is timing → bin. So line: happening: stocktaker wrote down shelf numbers. That's it.

Should I also record the telling as an actual happening? The T10D approach: no. But here the telling is asserted by the main clause of sentence 1 ("The shopkeeper told the stocktaker what had come in that week"). In T10D, "The account says opening the window caused..." — same structure: main clause is attribution. They binned it. I'll do the same but keep a GIVEN fact that the shopkeeper spoke? Hmm, T10D's bin reason says "The account's existence is GIVEN". So the account itself is a thing in the actual ledger. Here, the shopkeeper and stocktaker are actual things. The telling event — I'll record it as an actual happening since sentence 5 looks back at it ("as she spoke"), and it's what the stocktaker's writing is linked to. Actually, let me record: happening "telling": shopkeeper told stocktaker — mark said, sentence 1, CLAIMED. Verb "tell" — not in shape book → not checked. And the content is in the told world.

Hmm, but rule 14: "A quoted command or question goes to the bin, and nothing is claimed from it." Not relevant. And "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." The "attribution" here is "The shopkeeper told the stocktaker". So it goes to bin. But then sentence 1 would have no actual line at all except maybe the told-world lines. And sentence 5's "as she spoke" would point at a binned item.

I think there's a middle path: the telling is an actual event (she spoke to him), which is asserted, and the content of the telling is TOLD. The bin gets the attribution as scoping note (like T10D's bin entry which explains the scoping). T10D binned "The account says" but still had the account as a GIVEN thing. I'll do: bin entry for "The shopkeeper told the stocktaker" with the scoping reason; and also an actual happening line for the telling? That might double-count.

Let me decide: I'll include an actual happening line "telling: shopkeeper told stocktaker" (CLAIMED, said, sentence 1) because sentence 5's "as she spoke" needs it, and the bin entry will note that the attribution scopes the contents to the told world and the telling event itself is kept as the actual event the stocktaker's writing accompanied. Hmm, but the T10D precedent is to bin the attribution wholesale...

Actually, re-reading T10D's bin reason: "The attribution is retained here and scopes all reported contents to account_world. The account's existence is GIVEN; neither its described opening, its dryness nor its causal claim is asserted in the actual ledger." So the attribution is retained in the bin. The account's existence is GIVEN (a thing line). They did not write "account says" as a happening.

For our text: the shopkeeper's telling — I'll follow T10D: bin the attribution, keep shopkeeper and stocktaker as actual things (GIVEN existence), contents TOLD in "telling_world" (name it "stocktake_world" or "shopkeeper_report"). And sentence 5's "as she spoke" → bin as timing, referring to the telling.

Hmm, but then sentence 1 has no actual line. Is that OK? "Every sentence of the text appears in the ledger, in the bin, or in both." Sentence 1 appears in the bin (attribution) and its content appears as TOLD lines. Fine.

But wait: is "what had come in that week" content that should be a TOLD line? Yes: TOLD: goods arrived (that week → bin). The specifics are sentences 2-4. I'll write a TOLD line: "goods arrived at the shop" — hmm, "at the shop" isn't stated either; "came in" = arrived (came into the shop). I'll say "goods arrived" and bin "that week" (when). Actually, maybe better: the TOLD line for sentence 1: "stock arrived" — the text says "what had come in", i.e., the things that arrived. Since sentences 2-4 specify, I could treat sentence 1 as just the frame and let 2-4 carry content. But "what had come in that week" is itself reported content: she told him what had come in. The items: tinned fruit delivery (sentence 2). Also the van arrived (sentence 4) — the van arriving isn't "what came in" exactly; the van brought the delivery.

I'll write TOLD line s1: "goods arrived" (mark said, sentence 1), with a note that "that week" is binned. And in readings, note that "what had come in" is unspecified and filled in by sentences 2-4.

Hmm, actually — is it cleaner to not write a vague goods line and instead treat sentence 1 as pure frame? The checker might complain about a "goods" thing with no kind. I'd need a thing line for goods. "goods is a delivery; response not stated". Eh. Alternatively name it "the new delivery" — sentence 2 says "the new delivery of tinned fruit". So sentence 1's "what had come in" = the new delivery. I can link: TOLD line: the delivery arrived. And the delivery thing line: "delivery is a delivery of tinned fruit; response not stated". Then sentence 2's content: the delivery is stacked on the middle shelf by the window.

Let me now lay out the told world (name: "telling" — let me call it "shopkeeper_telling" or per T10D "account_world" style: "telling_world"). I'll use "telling_world".

TOLD lines (all mark "said"):
- t_goods (sentence 1): the delivery arrived. — hmm "came in" = arrived. Or "the delivery came in". Verb "come in" not in shape book. As a fact: holds(arrived(delivery)). Fine.
- sentence 2: the delivery is a delivery of tinned fruit; the delivery is stacked on the middle shelf; the middle shelf is by the window. "stacked on the middle shelf by the window" — the fruit is stacked on the middle shelf, and that shelf is by the window. Facts: holds(stacked_on(delivery, middle_shelf)), holds(by(middle_shelf, window)). Or one fact: holds(on(delivery, middle_shelf)) plus shelf by window. "Stacked" implies a pile — the image is plain enough; it's a location fact. I'll write: the tinned fruit is stacked on the middle shelf; the middle shelf is by the window.
- sentence 3: candles are running low; matches are running low; writing paper is running low. Facts: holds(running_low(candles)) etc. "running low" — could be tendency: "candles were already heading for running out". The text's own words: "running low". I'll write facts with the text's words. Maybe better as tendency lines? Tendency: THING was already heading for [content]. "Running low" is a present state, not "already heading for". The stock is low / diminishing. I'll keep it as a fact: holds(running_low(candles)). The description is a free name; fine.
- sentence 4: the delivery van arrived later than usual on Tuesday. Fact: holds(arrived(delivery_van)). Bin: "later than usual" (degree/comparison), "on Tuesday" (when).

Actual ledger lines:
- shopkeeper thing line (GIVEN? or CLAIMED?). Sentence 1 mentions her. Her existence is GIVEN along the way. T10D made the account GIVEN. I'll make shopkeeper GIVEN (sentence 1), stocktaker GIVEN (sentence 1).
- Actually, are they "in a happening"? The telling is binned, so maybe they're not in a happening in the actual ledger... but sentence 5: the stocktaker wrote down the shelf numbers — the stocktaker is a doer in a happening. So stocktaker needs a thing line. The shopkeeper — she spoke (binned), so she's not in an actual happening. But rule 3 says every thing in a happening needs a thing line. The shopkeeper is in the binned telling... I'll give both thing lines anyway (safer for completeness; the checker checks things in happenings, but extra thing lines are harmless).

Hmm wait, actually — should the telling be an actual happening after all? Let me reconsider once more. Sentence 5: "The stocktaker wrote down the shelf numbers as she spoke." The "as she spoke" is a temporal clause — GIVEN? Grammar clue: "as" clauses are GIVEN. So sentence 5 asserts: stocktaker wrote down shelf numbers (CLAIMED), and GIVEN: she spoke (the shopkeeper spoke). So I could have a GIVEN fact: the shopkeeper spoke. That's a nice way to handle "as she spoke" without binning it as timing! The language says "When, beyond the order of a chain and the stage named in a fact" goes to bin — timing. But "as she spoke" as a GIVEN fact "the shopkeeper spoke" captures it, and the simultaneity goes to bin. Hmm, but the order of a chain is allowed. Simultaneity isn't order. I'll write GIVEN fact: the shopkeeper spoke (to the stocktaker). And bin the simultaneity ("as she spoke" — at the same time).

Hmm, that might be over-engineering. Let me simplify: sentence 5: CLAIMED happening: stocktaker wrote down shelf numbers. GIVEN: the shopkeeper spoke. Bin: "as she spoke" marks simultaneity, which the language has no form for (timing).

Actually, is "the shopkeeper spoke" worth a line? It lets the "as" clause be accounted for. Yes, I'll include it as GIVEN, mark said, sentence 5.

Now the happening "wrote down": DOER stocktaker VERB "wrote down" THING shelf numbers. Verb shape: not in the book → "not checked". I'll note in the count/verbs_without_shape.

Shelf numbers: thing line. Kind: "numbers" — "shelf numbers" are numbers on shelves. Kind: not stated? I'll say "shelf_numbers is a set of numbers; response not stated". Hmm, kind: they're marks/labels. I'll use kind(shelf_numbers, numbers) — eh. Let me think: the kind is checked wherever another line speaks about that kind. Nothing else speaks about numbers. I'll write "shelf_numbers are numbers on shelves; response to a press not stated". Kind: numbers. Fine.

Also things in the told world: delivery, tinned fruit, middle shelf, window, candles, matches, writing paper, delivery van. Each needs a thing line (rule 3: every thing in a happening needs a thing line — but these are in facts, not happenings; still, T10D gave thing lines for window and letter). I'll give thing lines for the main told-world things.

Wait — do things appearing only in facts need thing lines? Rule 3: "Every thing in a happening must have a thing line of its own." Facts aren't happenings. But T10D gave window and letter thing lines even though they only appeared in facts (opened(window), stayed_dry(letter)). So yes, give thing lines for things in facts too. I'll give thing lines for: delivery, tinned_fruit, middle_shelf, window, candles, matches, writing_paper, delivery_van. That's a lot but fine.

Hmm, "tinned fruit" vs "delivery of tinned fruit": the delivery is of tinned fruit. I could name one thing "tinned_fruit_delivery" and skip separate fruit. But "stacked on the middle shelf" — what is stacked? The tinned fruit (the delivery). I'll use one thing: "delivery" (the new delivery of tinned fruit), kind: delivery of tinned fruit. And the fact: the delivery is stacked on the middle shelf. Simpler. But then "tinned fruit" as a thing — the delivery consists of tinned fruit. I'll make the kind "tinned_fruit_delivery" and be done: kind(delivery, tinned_fruit_delivery). Hmm, kinds should be plain. Let me name the thing "fruit_delivery" and kind "delivery_of_tinned_fruit". Or keep two things: delivery and tinned_fruit, with the delivery containing the fruit. Overkill. One thing: "delivery", kind "tinned_fruit_delivery". Hmm, the guide says atoms lower-case with underscores — fine.

Actually, let me reconsider: "the new delivery of tinned fruit, stacked on the middle shelf" — the thing stacked is the tinned fruit (the delivery). I'll have:
- thing: delivery — kind: delivery; response not stated. And a fact: the delivery is of tinned fruit? That's a description fact: holds(of(delivery, tinned_fruit))... needs a tinned_fruit thing. Ugh.

Simplest: thing "tinned_fruit" with kind "tinned fruit" — "the new delivery of tinned fruit, stacked on the middle shelf by the window" → facts: tinned_fruit arrived as a new delivery (sentence 1+2 link); tinned_fruit is stacked on the middle shelf; the middle shelf is by the window.

Hmm, but sentence 1's "what had come in" → the delivery. And sentence 2 "the new delivery of tinned fruit". Let me use thing "delivery" and treat "of tinned fruit" as part of its kind: kind(delivery, tinned_fruit_delivery). Then:
- s1 TOLD: the delivery arrived (came in that week; "that week" binned).
- s2 TOLD: the delivery is stacked on the middle shelf; the middle shelf is by the window.

And no separate tinned_fruit thing. Good, cleaner.

Thing lines in told world:
- delivery: kind delivery (of tinned fruit); response not stated.
- middle_shelf: kind shelf; response not stated. (Is a shelf fixed? A shelf is fixed like a wall? The text doesn't say. "not stated".)
- window: kind window; response not stated.
- candles: kind candles; response not stated.
- matches: kind matches; response not stated.
- writing_paper: kind writing paper; response not stated.
- delivery_van: kind van; response not stated.

Actual world:
- shopkeeper: kind person; response heavy and standing (usual case).
- stocktaker: kind person; response heavy and standing (usual case).
- shelf_numbers: kind numbers; response not stated.

Hmm, should shopkeeper/stocktaker response be "not stated" instead? Let me go with "usual case" + heavy and standing, since the language's list defines persons that way and it's something everyone assumes. I'll note the reading in readings_chosen? Not needed. Actually, to be safe and strictly follow "Where the text is silent on how a thing answers a press, write 'not stated'", maybe I should write "not stated" for them too. But then the checker can never determine strength for a person... The list explicitly gives "heavy and standing (a person)" — this is the language's classification, not a guess about the text. I'll use it with mark "usual case". That seems right: it's something everyone assumes, not something the text states.

Hmm, wait. Let me reconsider — "usual case" marks are for lines like "moving a measuring device changes its reading" (example A k1). For a thing line, the mark options are the same three. A thing line "shopkeeper is a person; answers a press as heavy and standing" — the kind (person) is said (she's a shopkeeper, hence a person); the response class is not said → so per rule 3, write "not stated"?? The rule: "If the text does not say how it answers a press, write 'not stated'. A class you guess is a filled-in line."

OK here's the thing: is "heavy and standing" for a person a guess? The language defines it as the class for a person. It's not a guess about this text; it's a definitional classification. But the translator rules seem to want "not stated" when the text is silent. Given the tension, I'll write "not stated" for everything except... hmm.

Let me look at the response class list again: "fixed (a wall); heavy and standing (a person); heavy and loose; light and loose (a ball, a coin); not a body (wind, cold, heat, and only when the text makes that clear); not stated (the text does not say)."

The parentheticals are examples of things in each class. So "heavy and standing" is the class a person belongs to. Writing it for a person is applying the language's classification, which I'd say is "usual case" (everyone assumes a person is heavy and standing). I'll go with that and note it in readings_chosen as a reading I chose. Actually the count of "usual case" lines will include these. Fine.

Hmm, hold on. Let me reconsider whether to keep it simple and use "not stated" for all things. The checker: "When a thing's response is not stated, or the influence is not a body, it says 'cannot tell'." So "not stated" is a perfectly valid, safe encoding. And for people, "heavy and standing" is also clearly right. The only happening with a shape-book-relevant verb is... none (wrote down, told, arrived, stacked, running low, came in — none in the shape book). So response classes never get queried for strength here. Either choice is inert.

I'll go with heavy-and-standing for the two people marked "usual case" (it's the language's class for a person, assumed rather than stated), and "not stated" for everything else. And I'll record this choice in readings_chosen.

Now, the "stacked" — is it a happening (someone stacked the fruit) or a fact (the fruit is stacked)? The text: "the new delivery of tinned fruit, stacked on the middle shelf by the window" — a participial description. As GIVEN/FACT: the delivery is stacked on the middle shelf. I'll write it as a TOLD fact. The passive agent isn't named. Good.

"running low" — fact: holds(running_low(candles)). Fine. Or should it be a tendency? "Tendencies. Write a tendency line when the text has its own words for it ('she was already heading downhill')." — "running low" is the text's own words for a diminishing state. Tendency line: "candles were already heading for running out"? Hmm, "running low" is the state itself, not a heading-toward. I'll keep facts. Simpler and faithful.

Now sentence 4: "the delivery van had arrived later than usual on Tuesday" — TOLD fact: the delivery van arrived. Bin: "later than usual" (how much later — degree/comparison), "on Tuesday" (when).

Sentence 3: "She listed the items that were running low: candles, matches, and writing paper." — "listed" attribution → bin. Content: candles, matches, writing paper are running low. Also "the items that were running low" — the items are things in the shop. Fine.

Sentence 2: "She described the new delivery of tinned fruit, stacked on the middle shelf by the window." — "described" → bin. Content: the delivery of tinned fruit, stacked on the middle shelf by the window.

Sentence 1: "The shopkeeper told the stocktaker what had come in that week." — "told" → bin (attribution). Content: what had come in → the delivery arrived. "that week" → bin (when).

Sentence 5: "The stocktaker wrote down the shelf numbers as she spoke." — CLAIMED happening: stocktaker wrote down shelf numbers. GIVEN: the shopkeeper spoke. "as" → bin (simultaneity/timing).

Wait — "as she spoke" — the "she" is the shopkeeper. GIVEN fact: the shopkeeper spoke. Good.

Also: is there a link between the writing and the telling? "as she spoke" — the writing happened while she spoke. Timing → bin. But I could also add a link line: the writing needs the speaking? No, that's not stated. Keep it as bin.

Now the "shelf numbers" — the stocktaker wrote down the shelf numbers. Which shelf numbers? Presumably of the items mentioned. Not stated which. Keep as is.

Let me also consider: should the told world include a line for "the items that were running low" being items in the shop? Not needed.

Now, do I need a "what had come in" line at all? I'll include: TOLD: the delivery arrived (sentence 1). And in readings, note that "what had come in that week" is the delivery of tinned fruit per sentence 2; "that week" binned as timing.

Hmm, one concern: sentence 1 says "what had come in that week" — this includes possibly more than the tinned fruit (the van? the items running low are not things that came in). The safest: TOLD line "goods arrived" with thing "goods"? But then goods needs a thing line and nothing else uses it. Alternatively, treat sentence 1 as pure frame: the telling is binned, and the content "what had come in that week" is unspecified — the reported specifics are in sentences 2-4. In that case sentence 1 contributes only the bin entry and the told-world frame.

Hmm. But "Every sentence of the text appears in the ledger, in the bin, or in both" — sentence 1 appears in the bin. OK. But is it right to drop the content clause "what had come in that week"? The clause is part of the telling's content: she told him what had come in. The ledger should record that the shopkeeper reported arrivals. I think a TOLD line "the delivery arrived" (or "goods arrived") is worth it. Let me name the thing "delivery" and have sentence 2 specify it's a delivery of tinned fruit. So:

Line s1a (TOLD, said, sentence 1): the delivery arrived. — holds(arrived(delivery)).

Hmm, "came in" — arrived where? At the shop. The shop isn't named. I'll just say arrived. Fine.

Actually, wait. There's a subtlety: sentence 1's "what had come in that week" is the topic of the whole report, and sentences 2-4 are the details: the delivery (s2), the items running low (s3), the van's late arrival (s4). So "what had come in" is most directly the delivery (s2) and the van's arrival (s4). I'll write the s1 line as "the delivery arrived" and note in readings that "what had come in" is filled by the delivery of tinned fruit (sentence 2) and the van's arrival (sentence 4), with "that week" binned as timing.

Hmm, actually maybe cleaner: don't create a separate s1 content line; instead note in the bin that sentence 1 frames the report and its content is given by sentences 2-4. But then sentence 1's own content ("what had come in") is lost. The task says a ledger is complete when another reader could rebuild what the writer committed to. The writer committed to: the shopkeeper reported the week's arrivals. I'll include the TOLD line. Let me name it "arrivals": "the week's arrivals arrived" — no. Use "delivery": TOLD: the delivery arrived. And sentence 4: the delivery van arrived. Two arrivals. Fine.

Hmm, but is "the delivery" from sentence 1 the same as "the new delivery of tinned fruit" in sentence 2? "The new delivery" — definite article, referring back. Yes, same. Good, one thing: delivery.

Now let me draft the lines with ids.

Actual ledger:
- shopkeeper (thing, GIVEN, said, s1): shopkeeper is a person; answers a press as heavy and standing. Mark: usual case? The thing line as a whole — the kind is said, the response is usual case. One line one mark. Split? "shopkeeper is a person" (said) and "shopkeeper answers a press as heavy and standing" (usual case). Hmm, rule 15: split if you can. I can split: line "shopkeeper": [GIVEN] shopkeeper is a person — said. Line "shopkeeper_body": [GIVEN] shopkeeper answers a press as heavy and standing — usual case. That's cleaner. But T10D wrote one line with "response to a press not stated" marked said. For consistency with the "not stated" ones I'll do single lines with "not stated" in the text marked said. For people, I'll do two lines: kind (said) and body (usual case). Hmm, that's more lines but cleaner marks.

Actually, let me simplify: for people, one line: "shopkeeper is a person; answers a press as heavy and standing" marked "usual case" with a note in the line? No — the kind IS said. Rule 15 says split if you can. I'll split.

Hmm, but that doubles lines for two people. It's fine — accuracy over brevity.

Wait, actually, let me reconsider using "not stated" for people to avoid the split hassle... No. The language clearly classifies persons as heavy and standing. I'll do the split. Actually, you know what — simpler: one line per person, marked "said" for the kind part, and put the response class in a second line marked "usual case". Let me just do it.

Actually, hmm, let me reconsider once more. Is "heavy and standing" for a person "something everyone assumes" (usual case) or "the language's definition"? Both. "usual case" fits. OK.

Let me now also double check: do shopkeeper and stocktaker need thing lines at all in the actual ledger? The stocktaker is the doer of "wrote down" (actual happening) → yes. The shopkeeper is the doer of "spoke" (GIVEN fact) → it's a fact, not a happening... but T10D gave the account a thing line. I'll give both.

Told world lines (world name: "telling" — I'll call it "telling_world"):

Thing lines (TOLD, said):
- delivery: the delivery is a delivery of tinned fruit; response to a press not stated. → kind(delivery, tinned_fruit_delivery), body(delivery, not_stated).
- middle_shelf: the middle_shelf is a shelf; response not stated.
- window: the window is a window; response not stated.
- candles: the candles are candles; response not stated.
- matches: the matches are matches; response not stated.
- writing_paper: the writing_paper is writing paper; response not stated.
- delivery_van: the delivery_van is a van; response not stated.

Fact lines (TOLD, said):
- s1: the delivery arrived. holds(arrived(delivery)). sentence 1.
- s2a: the delivery is stacked on the middle shelf. holds(stacked_on(delivery, middle_shelf)). sentence 2.
- s2b: the middle shelf is by the window. holds(by(middle_shelf, window)). sentence 2.
- s3a: the candles are running low. holds(running_low(candles)). sentence 3.
- s3b: the matches are running low. holds(running_low(matches)). sentence 3.
- s3c: the writing paper is running low. holds(running_low(writing_paper)). sentence 3.
- s4: the delivery van arrived. holds(arrived(delivery_van)). sentence 4.

Actual lines:
- shopkeeper thing: [GIVEN] shopkeeper is a person — said, s1.
- shopkeeper body: [GIVEN] shopkeeper answers a press as heavy and standing — usual case, s1.
- stocktaker thing: [GIVEN] stocktaker is a person — said, s1.
- stocktaker body: [GIVEN] stocktaker answers a press as heavy and standing — usual case, s1.
- shelf_numbers thing: [GIVEN] shelf_numbers are numbers; response not stated — said, s5. Hmm, kind(shelf_numbers, numbers). Are they "on shelves"? "the shelf numbers" — numbers of/on the shelves. I'll say kind "shelf_numbers"... the kind should be a kind. "numbers" is fine.
- spoke: [GIVEN] the shopkeeper spoke — said, s5. holds(spoke(shopkeeper)). Hmm, "spoke" to whom? To the stocktaker. holds(spoke_to(shopkeeper, stocktaker))? Keep simple: holds(spoke(shopkeeper)).
- writing: [CLAIMED] happening: stocktaker wrote down shelf_numbers — said, s5. As a happening line: "stocktaker wrote down shelf_numbers". Verb "wrote down" — no shape → not checked. How to encode in Prolog? A happening: the guide doesn't give an exact predicate for happenings. Example A encoded happenings as facts (holds(dies(...))) and the BECAUSE separately. Hmm, example_A line 12 is a PLAN. For a happening, maybe: `happening(wrote_down, stocktaker, shelf_numbers) :- line(writing).`? The guide's vocabulary list doesn't include a happening predicate! Let me re-read the guide's predicate list:

- thing line: kind/2, body/2
- fact: holds/1
- denied fact: denied/1
- general line ALWAYS MAKES: produced/2, depends/2
- ALWAYS SHOWS: holds/1
- USUALLY: same with exception
- exception: exempt/2, exception/2
- BECAUSE: claim_because/3
- denied BECAUSE: denied_because/3
- SINCE: claim_since/3
- plan: claim_plan/3, changes/2, depends/2
- likeness: claim_like/3
- what-if: no clause
- TOLD/SUPPOSED: same clauses with case fields

So happenings, results, links, tendencies, only-ways, events have no listed predicate. Hmm. The checker "asks about exactly these" predicates. So for a happening, what do we write? Example A line 12 (a plan) used claim_plan. For plain happenings... In example_A, "the cold reached the balcony plants" (line 6) was encoded as holds(reached(the_cold, balcony_plants)) — a fact! And the dying as holds(dies(...)). So happenings are encoded as holds(...) facts when they have no result-link. Interesting — example A treated "the cold reached the plants" as a fact line.

So for our text: "the stocktaker wrote down the shelf numbers" → holds(wrote_down(stocktaker, shelf_numbers)). As a "fact" line in the ledger table, but semantically a happening. The table's Content column can say "happening: stocktaker wrote down shelf_numbers" and the Prolog uses holds(wrote_down(stocktaker, shelf_numbers)).

Hmm, but the language has a Happening kind: "NAME: DOER VERB THING [DIRECTION]". The encoding guide just doesn't give a dedicated predicate. Since the checker only reads the listed predicates, I'll encode happenings as holds(...) with a doer-thing structure. That matches example A's treatment of "reached".

Similarly "the shopkeeper spoke" → holds(spoke(shopkeeper)).

And in the told world: "the delivery arrived" → holds(arrived(delivery)). "the delivery van arrived" → holds(arrived(delivery_van)).

OK. Now the verbs without shape: wrote down, spoke, told (binned), arrived, came in, stacked, running low, described, listed, mentioned (all binned except arrived/stacked/running low which are in facts). The report wants "the verbs with no shape". For fact-encodings, verbs don't have shapes anyway. The shape book is for happenings. My only happening is "wrote down" — not in the shape book → "not checked". I'll list it in verbs_without_shape.

Now the bin entries:
1. Sentence 1: "The shopkeeper told the stocktaker" — attribution; scopes all reported contents to telling_world. The telling itself is kept as the GIVEN fact that the shopkeeper spoke (sentence 5's "as she spoke"); neither the delivery's arrival, the shelf stacking, the low items nor the van's timing is asserted in the actual ledger.
   Hmm, also "what had come in that week" — the content clause. And "that week" — when.
2. Sentence 1: "that week" — when; the language has no form for timing beyond chain order.
3. Sentence 2: "She described" — attribution; the description's content is TOLD in telling_world.
4. Sentence 3: "She listed" — attribution.
5. Sentence 4: "She mentioned" — attribution.
6. Sentence 4: "later than usual" — degree/comparison of timing.
7. Sentence 4: "on Tuesday" — when.
8. Sentence 5: "as she spoke" — simultaneity; timing. (Kept partly as the GIVEN fact that the shopkeeper spoke; the simultaneity itself has no form.)

Also sentence 2: "by the window" — where (location) — "Where things are; inside, outside and openings" is outside the language! Hmm: "Where things are; inside, outside and openings" → bin. So "by the window" (location) should be binned?! But then the stacked-on-shelf fact loses the window part. Hmm. "stacked on the middle shelf by the window" — the location. The language's outside list includes "Where things are". So locations go to bin. But "stacked on the middle shelf" is also a location... Hmm.

Wait, but facts can have "any plain description" — "sat on the mat", "is in the study" — those are locations! The example fact shapes include locations. So locations ARE expressible as facts. The "outside the language" list says "Where things are; inside, outside and openings" — hmm, that contradicts the fact examples "sat on the mat", "is in the study".

Let me re-read: "## Outside the language: How much, how fast, how hard. Where things are; inside, outside and openings. When, beyond the order of a chain and the stage named in a fact. ..."

Hmm, "Where things are; inside, outside and openings" — but the fact kind explicitly allows "is in the study". So what's outside? Perhaps precise spatial geometry (inside/outside relative to openings). The fact "sat on the mat" is allowed. So "stacked on the middle shelf" is fine as a fact (like "sat on the mat"). "by the window" — a spatial relation; like "is in the study"? The study example is a location. "by the window" is a location relation. I think it's expressible as a fact: holds(by(middle_shelf, window)). The "outside" list probably targets things like "the van was outside the shop" or geometry of openings. I'll keep both facts and note in readings that "by the window" is read as a plain location fact, and if it must be binned, it's a location the language treats as descriptive.

Hmm, to be safe, I could keep "stacked on the middle shelf" as a fact and bin "by the window" as location-outside-language? But the fact example "is in the study" is exactly a where-thing-is. I'll keep both as facts and record the reading. Actually — "Where things are" in the outside list... The fact kind's examples ("sat on the mat", "is in the study") are locations, so locations are clearly writable as facts. The outside list item must mean something else — perhaps the checker doesn't reason about locations (no laws about them), so they're "not checked" but still writable. I'll keep them as facts and note it.

Hmm wait, maybe I should reconsider: maybe "Where things are" refers to absolute position questions the checker can't handle, while relational descriptions in facts are fine. Yes. Keep facts.

Now, "stacked" — a figure? No, plain. "running low" — plain-ish (idiom for low stock). It's the text's own words; write as fact.

Now the counts:
- lines said: let me count. Actual: shopkeeper_kind, stocktaker_kind, shelf_numbers, spoke, writing = 5 said... wait shopkeeper/stocktaker body lines are usual case (2). Told world: 7 thing lines + 7 fact lines = 14 said. Total said = 5 + 14 = 19. Usual case = 2. Filled in = 0.

Hmm, do I have any filled-in lines? The s1 line "the delivery arrived" — said. No filled lines. Maybe I should add a link line? "The stocktaker wrote down the shelf numbers as she spoke" — is there a link? The writing is during the speaking; no dependency. No link line needed.

Should I add a "usual case" line like "a person is heavy and standing"? I already have per-person body lines.

Any missing step I feel is obvious? Not really. The text is simple reporting.

Hmm, one thing: sentence 1 "what had come in that week" — I decided TOLD: the delivery arrived. But is that a reading? "what had come in" → the delivery (from sentence 2). That's a co-reference reading. I'll record it in readings_chosen: "what had come in" could be the delivery of tinned fruit (sentence 2) or a broader set of arrivals; chosen: the delivery, with the van's arrival also reported in sentence 4.

Also "the new delivery" — "new" is a description; keep in the kind: "a new delivery of tinned fruit". I'll include "new" in the fact/description: kind(delivery, new_tinned_fruit_delivery)? Kinds... "new" is a plain description, fine to include in the kind atom or as part of the fact. I'll write the thing line text: "the delivery is a new delivery of tinned fruit; response to a press not stated" and Prolog kind(delivery, new_tinned_fruit_delivery). Hmm, kinds are checked "wherever another line speaks about that kind" — nothing else does. Fine.

Now, sentence numbering: 5 sentences. Verse? No, prose.

Let me write the ledger table.

| Number | Standing | Content | Source mark | Sentence |

Actual ledger lines:
1. shopkeeper | GIVEN | shopkeeper is a person | said | 1
2. shopkeeper_body | GIVEN | shopkeeper answers a press as heavy and standing | usual case | 1
3. stocktaker | GIVEN | stocktaker is a person | said | 1
4. stocktaker_body | GIVEN | stocktaker answers a press as heavy and standing | usual case | 1
5. shelf_numbers | GIVEN | shelf_numbers are numbers on the shelves; response to a press not stated | said | 5
6. spoke | GIVEN | the shopkeeper spoke | said | 5
7. writing | CLAIMED | happening: stocktaker wrote down shelf_numbers | said | 5

Told world (telling_world):
8. delivery | TOLD in world telling_world | the delivery is a new delivery of tinned fruit; response to a press not stated | said | 2
9. middle_shelf | TOLD in world telling_world | the middle_shelf is a shelf; response to a press not stated | said | 2
10. window | TOLD in world telling_world | the window is a window; response to a press not stated | said | 2
11. candles | TOLD in world telling_world | the candles are candles; response to a press not stated | said | 3
12. matches | TOLD in world telling_world | the matches are matches; response to a press not stated | said | 3
13. writing_paper | TOLD in world telling_world | the writing_paper is writing paper; response to a press not stated | said | 3
14. delivery_van | TOLD in world telling_world | the delivery_van is a van; response to a press not stated | said | 4
15. arrived | TOLD in world telling_world | the delivery arrived | said | 1
16. stacked | TOLD in world telling_world | the delivery is stacked on the middle_shelf | said | 2
17. by_window | TOLD in world telling_world | the middle_shelf is by the window | said | 2
18. low_candles | TOLD in world telling_world | the candles are running low | said | 3
19. low_matches | TOLD in world telling_world | the matches are running low | said | 3
20. low_paper | TOLD in world telling_world | the writing_paper is running low | said | 3
21. van_arrived | TOLD in world telling_world | the delivery_van arrived | said | 4

Wait — the thing lines for the told world: should their standing be TOLD? Yes, they exist only in the reported world. And the shopkeeper/stocktaker are actual (they're real people in the shop; the telling happened). Yes.

Hmm, one question: is the stocktaker's writing actual or could it be part of the told world? No — sentence 5 is the narrator's own assertion, not reported speech. Actual. CLAIMED. Good.

Also — should sentence 1's "The shopkeeper told the stocktaker" also produce an actual happening "shopkeeper told stocktaker"? I binned the attribution. But then the only actual event is the writing + the GIVEN speaking. The bin entry explains. I think that's consistent with T10D. But hmm — sentence 1's main clause asserts the telling happened. By binning "The shopkeeper told the stocktaker", do we lose the commitment that there was a telling? The bin entry records the words and the reason. And the GIVEN line "the shopkeeper spoke" (from s5's "as she spoke") captures that she spoke. Plus the told world's existence implies the telling. I think it's fine, and it follows the precedent.

Actually, let me reconsider adding an actual happening line for the telling: "telling: shopkeeper told stocktaker" CLAIMED said s1. The rules say: "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." The telling verb is attribution → bin. T10D binned "The account says". I'll follow that. The bin entry will note that the telling itself is retained as the GIVEN fact the shopkeeper spoke (line 6) plus the told world.

Hmm, but line 6 (spoke) comes from sentence 5, not sentence 1. Sentence 1 then has: bin entry (attribution) + told lines (arrived). Plus thing lines shopkeeper/stocktaker GIVEN s1. OK, sentence 1 is covered.

Now the JSON. Fields: paragraph, whose, sentences, bin, leftover, whatifs, lines, words_split, readings_chosen. (The examples also have names, translation_gauge, author_note, status in T10D — optional. P14 has just the required ones. I'll include the required ones plus maybe names? The guide says every field required unless optional; extra fields like in examples... P14 includes only required fields. I'll include the required ones. Maybe add "names" for clarity? The guide doesn't list "names". T10D has it, P14 doesn't. I'll skip names to match P14, or include it — safer to match the guide's schema exactly. I'll include exactly the guide's fields.)

whatifs: empty array.

lines with ids, marks, sentences, standings, text, case/case_kind for TOLD lines, prolog_clauses.

Prolog clauses:

shopkeeper: kind(shopkeeper, person) :- line(shopkeeper).
shopkeeper_body: body(shopkeeper, heavy_standing) :- line(shopkeeper_body). — hmm, the response class atoms: "heavy and standing" → atom heavy_and_standing? The guide: `body(<thing>, not_stated)`. For a stated class, maybe body(shopkeeper, heavy_and_standing). I'll use heavy_and_standing. Hmm, or "heavy_standing". I'll use heavy_and_standing.

stocktaker: kind(stocktaker, person) :- line(stocktaker).
stocktaker_body: body(stocktaker, heavy_and_standing) :- line(stocktaker_body).
shelf_numbers: kind(shelf_numbers, numbers) :- line(shelf_numbers). body(shelf_numbers, not_stated) :- line(shelf_numbers).
spoke: holds(spoke(shopkeeper)) :- line(spoke).
writing: holds(wrote_down(stocktaker, shelf_numbers)) :- line(writing).

Told world:
delivery: kind(delivery, new_tinned_fruit_delivery) :- line(delivery). body(delivery, not_stated) :- line(delivery).
middle_shelf: kind(middle_shelf, shelf) :- line(middle_shelf). body(middle_shelf, not_stated) :- line(middle_shelf).
window: kind(window, window) :- line(window). body(window, not_stated) :- line(window).
candles: kind(candles, candles) :- line(candles). body(candles, not_stated) :- line(candles).
matches: kind(matches, matches) :- line(matches). body(matches, not_stated) :- line(matches).
writing_paper: kind(writing_paper, writing_paper) :- line(writing_paper). body(writing_paper, not_stated) :- line(writing_paper).
delivery_van: kind(delivery_van, van) :- line(delivery_van). body(delivery_van, not_stated) :- line(delivery_van).
arrived: holds(arrived(delivery)) :- line(arrived).
stacked: holds(stacked_on(delivery, middle_shelf)) :- line(stacked).
by_window: holds(by(middle_shelf, window)) :- line(by_window).
low_candles: holds(running_low(candles)) :- line(low_candles).
low_matches: holds(running_low(matches)) :- line(low_matches).
low_paper: holds(running_low(writing_paper)) :- line(low_paper).
van_arrived: holds(arrived(delivery_van)) :- line(van_arrived).

Wait — "candles are candles" — kind(candles, candles) is odd. Maybe kind(candles, candle)? The thing name is candles (plural thing). Kind: candle. "the candles are candles" — I'll write kind(candles, candle) and text "the candles are candles". Hmm. Or name the thing "candles" with kind "candle". Fine: kind(candles, candle). Similarly matches: kind(matches, match)? "the matches are matches" — kind(matches, match). Writing paper: kind(writing_paper, writing_paper). OK.

Hmm, actually for the thing line text, T10D wrote "window is a window; response to a press not stated". So "candles are candles; response to a press not stated" is fine, with kind(candles, candle)... slight mismatch. Let me use kind(candles, candles)? The kind is a free name; the checker only asks whether two facts are the same fact. Kinds are checked "wherever another line speaks about that kind". Nothing else speaks about these kinds. I'll use kind(candles, candle) for readability. Meh — either. I'll use singular kinds: candle, match, writing_paper, van, shelf, window, person, numbers, new_tinned_fruit_delivery.

Now the counts section (section 5 of printed output):
- lines said: 19? Let me recount.

Said lines: shopkeeper, stocktaker, shelf_numbers, spoke, writing (5) + delivery, middle_shelf, window, candles, matches, writing_paper, delivery_van (7) + arrived, stacked, by_window, low_candles, low_matches, low_paper, van_arrived (7) = 19.
Usual case: shopkeeper_body, stocktaker_body = 2.
Filled in: 0.
Total lines: 21.

Sentences losing something to the bin: sentence 1 (that week), sentence 2 (described — attribution; though content kept), sentence 3 (listed), sentence 4 (mentioned, later than usual, on Tuesday), sentence 5 (as she spoke). Hmm — "sentences that lost something to the bin": sentences with bin entries: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 → 5? Sentence 2's bin entry is just the attribution word "described" — the content is kept. Does that count as "lost something to the bin"? The attribution word went to the bin. I'd count sentences 1-5 all lost something (the reporting verbs and the timing words). Hmm, for sentences 2 and 3, only the reporting verb was binned. I'll count 5 sentences with bin entries but note that for 2 and 3 only the reporting verb was binned while its content was kept as TOLD lines. Actually, let me reconsider: is binning the reporting verb "losing something"? The reporting verb is attribution, and its content is preserved. The count is "sentences that lost something to the bin". I'll say 5 (every sentence has a bin entry), with a note. Hmm, sentence 5: "as she spoke" binned. Sentence 1: "told" + "that week". Sentence 4: three items. So yes, 5.

Hmm, wait. Should the reporting verbs really be binned given their content is preserved as TOLD lines? Yes — per the rules, the attribution goes to the bin and the content is TOLD. That's exactly the design. So sentences 2 and 3 lost only the attribution verb. I'll report: 5 sentences have bin entries; sentences 2 and 3 lost only the reporting verb (their content is preserved as TOLD lines).

Now words_split: none? "told" is used once. "delivery" appears in "the new delivery of tinned fruit" and "the delivery van" — two senses! "delivery" (the consignment of goods) vs "delivery van" (the vehicle). Actually "delivery van" is a compound: the van that makes deliveries. And "the new delivery of tinned fruit" is the consignment. These are different things with different names already (delivery vs delivery_van). Do I need to record a split? The word "delivery" is used in two senses: (1) the consignment of tinned fruit, (2) attributive in "delivery van" (the van used for deliveries). Since I gave them different names (delivery, delivery_van), rule 2 says record the split. I'll record: "delivery: the consignment of tinned fruit / the van's delivery role (in 'delivery van')". Good catch.

Also "stocktaker" — one sense. "shelf numbers" — the numbers of the shelves. Fine.

Also "came in" vs "arrived" — same sense, no split.

Readings I chose:
1. Sentence 1: "The shopkeeper told the stocktaker" — open readings: (a) treat the telling as an actual happening in the actual ledger; (b) bin the attribution and keep the contents in a told world, following the T10D precedent. Chosen: (b). The telling's occurrence is kept only as the GIVEN fact that the shopkeeper spoke (from sentence 5's "as she spoke").
2. Sentence 1: "what had come in that week" — open: the delivery of tinned fruit (sentence 2), or a broader unnamed set of arrivals. Chosen: the delivery, with the van's arrival also reported (sentence 4); "that week" binned as timing.
3. Sentences 2-4: the reporting verbs "described", "listed", "mentioned" — open: report them as actual happenings of describing/listing/mentioning, or bin them as attribution and keep only the content. Chosen: bin the verbs, keep contents as TOLD in telling_world.
4. Sentence 2: "by the window" — open: a plain location fact (like "is in the study") or outside the language ("where things are"). Chosen: a plain location fact, since the fact kind allows locations; the checker does not reason about it further.
5. Sentence 5: "as she spoke" — open: a temporal link (simultaneity) or a GIVEN fact that she spoke. Chosen: GIVEN fact the shopkeeper spoke, with the simultaneity itself binned as timing.
6. Thing response classes for people: open: "not stated" or the language's class for a person (heavy and standing). Chosen: heavy and standing, marked usual case.
7. "stacked" — open: a happening (someone stacked the delivery) or a state (the delivery is stacked). Chosen: the state, since no agent is named.

Also maybe: "running low" — open: a tendency line (heading for running out) or a fact. Chosen: fact with the text's own words.

Now the PARKED list: judgements about reasoning — this text has no argument, so PARKED is empty or has nothing. The prompt says the PARKED list goes at the very end, one line each. I'll include an empty PARKED or a line saying nothing to park. I'll write "PARKED: none — the text reports, and makes no argument." Hmm, the instruction: "Judgements about whether the writer's reasoning is good... go in a PARKED list at the very end". Since there's no reasoning, I'll put "(none)". Let me include a short note.

Wait, ordering of the printed output: The task says print sections 1-5, close with TRANSLATION COMPLETE, then wait. The encoding guide says after the five sections, print the ledger once more as ONE JSON object in a fenced block. And the PARKED list goes "at the very end". Hmm: "Close with: TRANSLATION COMPLETE. Then wait." and PARKED "at the very end, one line each. Then return to the line in hand."

Order: 1 ledger table, 2 bin, 3 words split, 4 readings, 5 count, then the JSON block, then TRANSLATION COMPLETE? The guide says "After them, print the ledger once more as ONE JSON object inside a fenced code block... Nothing else goes in that block." And the task says "Close with: TRANSLATION COMPLETE. Then wait." And PARKED at the very end.

Hmm, conflicting: "Close with TRANSLATION COMPLETE" vs PARKED at the very end. The task 39 says: "Close with: TRANSLATION COMPLETE. Then wait." and separately "The parking place: ... go in a PARKED list at the very end of your output, one line each." Since PARKED is "at the very end", and TRANSLATION COMPLETE closes the translation... I'll do: sections 1-5, then the JSON block, then TRANSLATION COMPLETE, then PARKED (empty/none). Hmm, but "Nothing else goes in that block" refers to the JSON block only. And "Then wait" — the model should stop. I'll put PARKED after TRANSLATION COMPLETE as the very last thing, with "none". Actually, re-reading: "Close with: TRANSLATION COMPLETE. Then wait." — this is the final instruction of the print spec. The PARKED instruction is a general standing instruction ("at the very end of your output"). Since there's nothing to park, I'll print "PARKED: (none)" after TRANSLATION COMPLETE. Hmm, but that violates "Close with TRANSLATION COMPLETE"... 

The user's message says: "print exactly what the task and the guide ask for, ending with the JSON block and then the words TRANSLATION COMPLETE." — from the system prompt: "ending with the JSON block and then the words TRANSLATION COMPLETE". So the order is: five sections, JSON block, TRANSLATION COMPLETE. And PARKED — "at the very end". I'll put PARKED before the JSON block? No... Let me just follow: sections 1-5, PARKED list, JSON block, TRANSLATION COMPLETE. Hmm, "at the very end" for PARKED conflicts.

Given the explicit instruction "ending with the JSON block and then the words TRANSLATION COMPLETE", I'll make PARKED the last section before the JSON block... but it says "at the very end". Ugh. Since PARKED is empty here, I'll include it as a short line right after section 5 and before the JSON block, noting nothing is parked. That satisfies "at the very end" of the prose output, and the JSON + TRANSLATION COMPLETE close the whole thing. Actually the cleanest reading: the five sections, then PARKED (very end of the ledger output), then the JSON block (the machine-readable copy), then TRANSLATION COMPLETE. I'll do that.

Now let me also double check the "sentences" field: verbatim sentences 1-5.

Let me write the bin entries with sentence numbers and words:
1. {sentence 1, words: "The shopkeeper told the stocktaker", reason: "Attribution: the reporting verb scopes all of the reported contents to telling_world. Neither the delivery's arrival, the shelf stacking, the low items nor the van's arrival is asserted in the actual ledger. The telling itself survives only as the GIVEN fact that the shopkeeper spoke (line spoke, sentence 5)."}
2. {sentence 1, words: "that week", reason: "When: the language has no form for timing beyond the order of a chain and the stage named in a fact."}
3. {sentence 2, words: "She described", reason: "Attribution: the describing is not an actual happening; what she described is TOLD in telling_world (lines delivery, stacked, by_window)."}
4. {sentence 3, words: "She listed", reason: "Attribution: the listing is not an actual happening; the items and their state are TOLD in telling_world (lines candles, matches, writing_paper, low_candles, low_matches, low_paper)."}
5. {sentence 4, words: "She mentioned", reason: "Attribution: the mentioning is not an actual happening; the van's arrival is TOLD in telling_world (lines delivery_van, van_arrived)."}
6. {sentence 4, words: "later than usual", reason: "Degree of timing: a comparison with an unnamed usual time; the language has no form for how much or when."}
7. {sentence 4, words: "on Tuesday", reason: "When: timing beyond chain order."}
8. {sentence 5, words: "as she spoke", reason: "Simultaneity: the writing's coincidence with the speaking. That she spoke is kept as the GIVEN line spoke; the simultaneity itself has no form."}

leftover: one string per bin entry: "Sentence 1: <words> — <reason>".

Now, section 5 count in the printed output: "lines said, lines filled in, lines usual case, sentences that lost something to the bin." → said 19, filled in 0, usual case 2, sentences losing something to the bin: 5 (with the note that sentences 2 and 3 lost only the reporting verb).

Hmm, let me reconsider whether sentences 2 and 3 "lost something to the bin". The reporting verb is attribution — binned. Yes, something was lost (the act of describing/listing is not recorded as an actual happening). I'll count 5 and explain.

Also should I mention verbs without shape? The task's section 5 only asks for the count. The guide's JSON doesn't require a verbs list (T10D had translation_gauge with verbs_without_shape, optional). I'll mention "wrote down" has no shape in the notes or in the ledger? The language says "A verb missing from the shape book is reported 'not checked' and counted". I'll add a note under the count: the happening's verb "wrote down" is not in the shape book, so it is not checked. I'll put that in the count section as an extra line, and optionally in the JSON... the JSON schema doesn't have a field for it. T10D put it in translation_gauge. I'll skip translation_gauge or include it? The guide lists the required fields; translation_gauge isn't among them. I'll skip it but mention in section 5.

Now let me double-check the line table format: Number | Standing | Content | Source mark | Sentence. Numbers: I'll use the line ids (a, b, c...) or numbers? "Number | ..." — the language allows numbers or short names. I'll use short ids for clarity: sk1, sk2, st1, st2, shn, spoke, wrote, del, shelf, win, can, mat, pap, van, arr, stk, byw, lc, lm, lp, va. Hmm, let me use readable ids:

Actual:
- sk (shopkeeper thing)
- sk_body
- st (stocktaker thing)
- st_body
- numbers (shelf_numbers thing)
- spoke
- wrote

Told:
- delivery
- shelf
- window
- candles
- matches
- paper
- van
- arrived
- stacked
- by_window
- low_candles
- low_matches
- low_paper
- van_arrived

Total 21 lines. Good.

Wait, "paper" as an id vs "writing_paper" — use writing_paper. And "van" vs "delivery_van" — use delivery_van. And "shelf" vs "middle_shelf" — use middle_shelf.

Ids must be lower-case with no spaces: shopkeeper, shopkeeper_body, stocktaker, stocktaker_body, shelf_numbers, spoke, wrote, delivery, middle_shelf, window, candles, matches, writing_paper, delivery_van, arrived, stacked, by_window, low_candles, low_matches, low_paper, van_arrived. Good.

Now the table rows with Content in the language's words:

1. shopkeeper | GIVEN | shopkeeper is a person | said | 1
2. shopkeeper_body | GIVEN | shopkeeper answers a press as heavy and standing | usual case | 1
3. stocktaker | GIVEN | stocktaker is a person | said | 1
4. stocktaker_body | GIVEN | stocktaker answers a press as heavy and standing | usual case | 1
5. shelf_numbers | GIVEN | shelf_numbers are numbers; response to a press not stated | said | 5
6. spoke | GIVEN | the shopkeeper spoke | said | 5
7. wrote | CLAIMED | happening: stocktaker wrote down shelf_numbers | said | 5
8. delivery | TOLD in world telling_world | delivery is a new delivery of tinned fruit; response to a press not stated | said | 2
9. middle_shelf | TOLD in world telling_world | middle_shelf is a shelf; response to a press not stated | said | 2
10. window | TOLD in world telling_world | window is a window; response to a press not stated | said | 2
11. candles | TOLD in world telling_world | candles are candles; response to a press not stated | said | 3
12. matches | TOLD in world telling_world | matches are matches; response to a press not stated | said | 3
13. writing_paper | TOLD in world telling_world | writing_paper is writing paper; response to a press not stated | said | 3
14. delivery_van | TOLD in world telling_world | delivery_van is a van; response to a press not stated | said | 4
15. arrived | TOLD in world telling_world | delivery arrived | said | 1
16. stacked | TOLD in world telling_world | delivery is stacked on middle_shelf | said | 2
17. by_window | TOLD in world telling_world | middle_shelf is by window | said | 2
18. low_candles | TOLD in world telling_world | candles are running low | said | 3
19. low_matches | TOLD in world telling_world | matches are running low | said | 3
20. low_paper | TOLD in world telling_world | writing_paper is running low | said | 3
21. van_arrived | TOLD in world telling_world | delivery_van arrived | said | 4

Hmm — the thing lines for candles/matches: "candles are candles" — the kind. In Prolog: kind(candles, candle). The text says "candles, matches, and writing paper" — kinds: candle, match, writing paper. OK.

One more consideration: should the told-world thing lines' standing be TOLD? Yes — within the told world. And the arrived/stacked facts TOLD. Good.

Also — do I need a "link" line? "The stocktaker wrote down the shelf numbers as she spoke" — no dependency. No links. No BECAUSE/SINCE. No general lines. No exceptions. Fine — the text is pure reporting.

Hmm, wait: is there anything about "the items that were running low" being "items"? Sentence 3: "the items that were running low: candles, matches, and writing paper." The items are candles, matches, writing paper. I could add a fact that these are items (things in the shop). Not needed — the thing lines cover it.

Now check: every sentence appears in ledger or bin:
- S1: lines shopkeeper, stocktaker (GIVEN), arrived (TOLD) + bin entries 1, 2. ✓
- S2: lines delivery, middle_shelf, window, stacked, by_window + bin 3. ✓
- S3: lines candles, matches, writing_paper, low_* + bin 4. ✓
- S4: lines delivery_van, van_arrived + bin 5, 6, 7. ✓
- S5: lines shelf_numbers, spoke, wrote + bin 8. ✓

Every thing has one name used throughout. ✓
Every line has five parts. ✓
Every added line carries "filled in" or "usual case" — the two body lines are "usual case". ✓
Every image, quoted command, attributed belief accounted for — the attributions are binned. ✓

Now the JSON. Let me write it carefully.

{
 "paragraph": "B07",
 "whose": "<model name>, under L82",
 "sentences": {"1": "...", ..., "5": "..."},
 "bin": [ ... 8 entries ...],
 "leftover": [ ... 8 strings ...],
 "whatifs": [],
 "lines": { ... 21 entries ...},
 "words_split": ["delivery: the consignment of tinned fruit / the van's delivery role in 'delivery van'"],
 "readings_chosen": [ ... ]
}

For TOLD lines, include "case": "telling_world", "case_kind": "told".

Prolog clauses per line — each clause must have line(<id>) as first body goal and end with a full stop.

Let me write them:

shopkeeper: ["kind(shopkeeper, person) :- line(shopkeeper)."]
shopkeeper_body: ["body(shopkeeper, heavy_and_standing) :- line(shopkeeper_body)."]
stocktaker: ["kind(stocktaker, person) :- line(stocktaker)."]
stocktaker_body: ["body(stocktaker, heavy_and_standing) :- line(stocktaker_body)."]
shelf_numbers: ["kind(shelf_numbers, numbers) :- line(shelf_numbers).", "body(shelf_numbers, not_stated) :- line(shelf_numbers)."]
spoke: ["holds(spoke(shopkeeper)) :- line(spoke)."]
wrote: ["holds(wrote_down(stocktaker, shelf_numbers)) :- line(wrote)."]
delivery: ["kind(delivery, new_tinned_fruit_delivery) :- line(delivery).", "body(delivery, not_stated) :- line(delivery)."]
middle_shelf: ["kind(middle_shelf, shelf) :- line(middle_shelf).", "body(middle_shelf, not_stated) :- line(middle_shelf)."]
window: ["kind(window, window) :- line(window).", "body(window, not_stated) :- line(window)."]
candles: ["kind(candles, candle) :- line(candles).", "body(candles, not_stated) :- line(candles)."]
matches: ["kind(matches, match) :- line(matches).", "body(matches, not_stated) :- line(matches)."]
writing_paper: ["kind(writing_paper, writing_paper) :- line(writing_paper).", "body(writing_paper, not_stated) :- line(writing_paper)."]
delivery_van: ["kind(delivery_van, van) :- line(delivery_van).", "body(delivery_van, not_stated) :- line(delivery_van)."]
arrived: ["holds(arrived(delivery)) :- line(arrived)."]
stacked: ["holds(stacked_on(delivery, middle_shelf)) :- line(stacked)."]
by_window: ["holds(by(middle_shelf, window)) :- line(by_window)."]
low_candles: ["holds(running_low(candles)) :- line(low_candles)."]
low_matches: ["holds(running_low(matches)) :- line(low_matches)."]
low_paper: ["holds(running_low(writing_paper)) :- line(low_paper)."]
van_arrived: ["holds(arrived(delivery_van)) :- line(van_arrived)."]

The "text" field for each line: "[<standing>] <the line in the language's words>".

Now, whose: I'm an AI model — I'll write "GLM-5.1, under L82" or similar. The user says "under L82" in the guide. I'll use "GLM-5.1, under L82".

Hmm, the paragraph id: "B07" as given ("THE TEXT TO TRANSLATE: B07").

Let me now write out the full response.

Section 4: Readings I chose — each as: the sentence, the readings open, the one I took.

1. Sentence 1 — "The shopkeeper told the stocktaker what had come in that week." Readings open: (a) keep the telling as an actual happening in the actual ledger; (b) bin the attribution and write the reported contents as TOLD in a world of their own. Taken: (b), following the language's rule for reported content; the telling survives in the actual ledger only as the GIVEN fact that the shopkeeper spoke (line spoke).
2. Sentence 1 — "what had come in". Readings open: the delivery of tinned fruit named in sentence 2, or some wider unnamed set of arrivals. Taken: the delivery (line arrived), with the van's arrival in sentence 4 as the other reported arrival; "that week" is timing and goes to the bin.
3. Sentences 2–4 — "described", "listed", "mentioned". Readings open: actual happenings of describing, listing and mentioning, or attribution only. Taken: attribution only, binned; the contents are TOLD in telling_world.
4. Sentence 2 — "stacked on the middle shelf by the window". Readings open: a happening with an unnamed stacker, or a state of the delivery. Taken: the state (line stacked), since no agent is named; "by the window" is kept as a plain location fact (line by_window), the way "is in the study" is, though the checker does not reason about places.
5. Sentence 3 — "running low". Readings open: a tendency line (heading for running out) or a fact in the text's own words. Taken: the fact (lines low_candles, low_matches, low_paper).
6. Sentence 4 — "later than usual on Tuesday". Readings open: keep the arrival with its timing, or keep only the arrival. Taken: only the arrival (line van_arrived); "later than usual" is a degree of timing and "on Tuesday" a time, and both go to the bin.
7. Sentence 5 — "as she spoke". Readings open: a temporal link between the writing and the speaking, or a GIVEN fact that she spoke. Taken: the GIVEN fact (line spoke); the simultaneity itself goes to the bin as timing.
8. All things — response classes for the two people. Readings open: "not stated", or the language's own class for a person. Taken: heavy and standing, marked usual case, since the text never states it; all other things are "not stated".
9. "delivery" — used in two senses: the consignment of tinned fruit, and attributively in "delivery van". Split into delivery and delivery_van (see words split).

Also a slip-of-spelling note: none. I'll say no spelling slips.

Section 3: Words I split:
- delivery: (1) the consignment of tinned fruit that came in; (2) the van's delivery role, in "delivery van". Names: delivery and delivery_van.

Any other split? "told" — single sense. "shelf" — "middle shelf" and "shelf numbers" — "shelf numbers" are numbers of shelves; "shelf" is used in "middle shelf" (a shelf) and attributively in "shelf numbers" (numbers identifying shelves). Could split: shelf (the middle shelf) / shelf-numbers (the numbers of the shelves). I already named them differently (middle_shelf, shelf_numbers). Should I record it? The word "shelf" appears in two uses: the physical shelf, and attributive in "shelf numbers". I'll record it too for completeness. Hmm, "shelf numbers" is a compound noun; the split rule is about one word in two senses. "shelf" in "shelf numbers" is a modifier, arguably the same sense (of the shelves). I'll record it lightly: "shelf: the middle shelf itself / attributive in 'shelf numbers' (the numbers of the shelves)". I'll include it.

Section 5 count:
- lines said: 19
- lines filled in: 0
- lines usual case: 2
- sentences that lost something to the bin: 5 (sentences 1–5; in sentences 2 and 3 only the reporting verb went, its content being kept as TOLD lines)
- note: the one happening's verb, "wrote down", is not in the shape book, so it is reported "not checked".

PARKED: none.

Now, let me write the final answer with the five sections, the JSON block, and TRANSLATION COMPLETE.

One more check on the JSON validity: no trailing commas, double quotes. The sentences contain no quotes. Bin reasons contain apostrophes — fine in JSON double-quoted strings. "van's" — fine.

Let me write the sentences verbatim:
1. "The shopkeeper told the stocktaker what had come in that week."
2. "She described the new delivery of tinned fruit, stacked on the middle shelf by the window."
3. "She listed the items that were running low: candles, matches, and writing paper."
4. "She mentioned that the delivery van had arrived later than usual on Tuesday."
5. "The stocktaker wrote down the shelf numbers as she spoke."

Good.

Let me write it all out now.