We need to translate B11 into ledger language, following the encoding guide, producing5 sections + JSON + "TRANSLATION COMPLETE".

Let me number sentences.

1. "The dockyard clerk read through the harbourmaster's log for the week."
2. "In it, the harbourmaster had written that the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned."
3. "The log went on to list who had crewed the boat and how much the catch had weighed."
4. "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that six boats had tied up before noon."
5. "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier."

Things: dockyard clerk, harbourmaster's log (the log), harbourmaster, trawler, the bar, the tide, crew (the boat's crew?), the boat (= the trawler), the catch, six boats, the north pier, the entry (the entry in the log).

Worlds: the log world — content written by the harbourmaster in the log: "the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned", "who had crewed the boat", "how much the catch had weighed". Those are TOLD in world log_world.

Sentence 4: the clerk noted, from her own count, that six boats had tied up before noon. This is an attribution: "the clerk also noted" — attribution to bin? The task says "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." Hmm. "noted" — is that a report of her own count? The attribution "the clerk noted" sends to bin; content becomes TOLD in world clerk's count? Hmm, but "from her own count" — she counted. Let's think: the clerk's count content: "six boats had tied up before noon" — that's TOLD in world clerk_count_world (her count's world). Numbers "six" go to bin (numbers are outside the language). "before noon" — when — bin. Hmm "when, beyond the order of a chain and the stage named in a fact" is outside; "before noon" is a time — bin. "six boats" — numbers to bin; but the fact "boats tied up" could be kept as "boats tied up" with the count and timing in bin. Hmm, but binning "six" loses info; but rule: numbers go to bin. So fact: "boats tied up" TOLD in world clerk_count_world? Actually "tied up" = boats tied up (moored). 

Hmm, maybe simpler: keep fact "boats tied up before noon" but bin "six" and "before noon"? Numbers and time go to bin. I'll write fact "boats tied up" with count and timing in bin.

Actually careful — a fact's description is a free name. I could write "boats tied up" as a fact and bin "six" (number) and "before noon" (time). That seems right per "Some, most, few, and numbers" and "When, beyond the order of a chain and the stage named in a fact."

Sentence 1: The clerk read through the log. That's a happening: clerk READS the log. "read through" — verb "read" — no shape in shape book (throw, toss, hurl, push, pull, lean on, hit, drop, let go of, open a fist on, hold, close a fist on). "read" has no shape → "not checked" and counted. Hmm, the checker reports "not checked" for a verb missing from the shape book. Fine.

Do we give the clerk thing line: clerk is a person (heavy and standing)? A person's response class: heavy and standing. That's a class we could guess — "A class you guess is a filled-in line." But the text says "clerk" — a person. Hmm, is naming the kind "person" said? "dockyard clerk" — it's a role held by a person. I'd say kind(clerk, person) is filled in (guessing the response class), or said? The thing line requires "NAME is a KIND; it answers a press as one of the six response classes; it may be a DOER". Example_T10D uses "kind(X, kind) and body(X, not_stated)". For a person we could say body(clerk, heavy_and_standing) filled in. Hmm, the JSON example uses `body(<thing>, not_stated)` when not stated. For a person, I can give body(clerk, heavy_and_standing) marked filled in. Actually to be safe and consistent with examples: I'll do thing lines with kind and body. For persons, response class heavy_and_standing — is that "usual case" (something everyone assumes) or "filled in"? The rule: "If the text does not say how it answers a press, write 'not stated'. A class you guess is a filled in line." So guessing a class = filled in. But wait — "not stated" is the instruction when the text doesn't say. Hmm, contradictory-ish: rule 3 says if text does not say how it answers a press, write "not stated"; a class you guess is filled in. So the default is "not stated" unless you guess, in which case it's filled in. To keep it clean, I'll write "not stated" for most things and where obvious (person) I might mark filled in. Simpler and safer: write "not stated" for all bodies except where needed. Actually the language lists response classes including "heavy and standing (a person)". Being a person is evident from the text ("her own count", "clerk", "harbourmaster"). I think giving persons heavy_and_standing as filled in is reasonable. But it adds risk of mismatch. I'll do: persons — filled in heavy_and_standing? Hmm. The instruction "A class you guess is a filled in line" implies it's fine to guess. But minimal approach: "not stated". I'll choose "not stated" for all things to keep marks clean and avoid guessing — but that seems to waste the response classes. Actually the checker "cannot tell" when response not stated; happenings wouldn't be checked. Since verbs like "read", "write", "list", "note", "tie up" have no shape anyway, happenings won't be checked regardless. Trawlers, boats, tide — these are vessels and water, not person/fixed. Hmm, "not a body (wind, cold, heat, and only when the text makes that clear)". Tide is not a body — but only when text makes clear. Text doesn't say. So "not stated".

I'll go with: thing lines with kind and body not_stated for all, except persons where I'll give... let me just do "not stated" everywhere for consistency and to avoid guesses, and note in readings? Hmm, but rule says a class you guess is filled in — allowed. I think for persons (clerk, harbourmaster) the class "heavy and standing (a person)" is stated by the language definition itself for a person, and the text calls them "her", "clerk", "harbourmaster" — persons. That's arguably said-level info: the text says these are persons. I'll write body(clerk, heavy_and_standing) with mark "filled in" — the response class guessed. Hmm, but then the thing line content would be part-filled-in and part-said. Rule 15: one line, one source mark; split if you can. Splitting a thing line's kind and body into two lines is awkward but possible: one line for kind (said), one for body (filled in). Hmm.

Simpler: give each thing a single line, "not stated" body, mark said where the kind comes from text. That is clean. I'll do that uniformly: `kind(...)`, `body(..., not_stated)`. Actually maybe for the clerk and harbourmaster I'll note in "Readings I chose" that I left response class unstated rather than guessing. That's clean and defensible. Let's do that.

Hmm, but a "good ledger" completeness... it's fine.

Actually, let me reconsider: I could write two lines per thing: kind line said, body line filled in with heavy_and_standing. That doubles lines but follows rule 3 more richly. The encoding guide's prolog for a thing line: `kind(<thing>, <kind>) :- line(id).` and `body(<thing>, not_stated) :- line(id).` (the response to a press, when not stated). It shows both in one line's prolog_clauses (example_T10D does exactly that with one line id). So one line per thing containing both clauses. Fine — I'll use not_stated for all things and keep one line each. Simple, consistent.

Hmm, but let me reconsider once more for "the trawler" and "six boats" — vessels. Body not stated. Fine.

Now, the happenings.

Sentence 1: "The dockyard clerk read through the harbourmaster's log for the week."
- Things: clerk, log. Also "for the week" — a period → bin (when, beyond order). Actually "for the week" modifies the log ("the harbourmaster's log for the week") — the log covering the week. Time → bin.
- Happening p1: clerk READS log. Verb "read" no shape → "not checked".
- Standing: CLAIMED (main clause).
- "harbourmaster's log" — ownership relation. Ownership/possession: is it a fact? "log is the harbourmaster's log" — kind. I could write fact "log belongs to harbourmaster"? Hmm. Ownership may be a fact description: "the log was the harbourmaster's log" is a kind in the thing line: kind(log, log) — with a name "harbourmaster's log". I'll name the thing "harbourmaster log" and its kind "log", and also note the possession as a fact: holds(kept_by(log, harbourmaster))? Hmm — possession could be treated as a plain fact: "log is the harbourmaster's log". I'll add a fact line: "the log is the harbourmaster's log" — as a Fact (plain description) CLAIMED/GIVEN? It's given within sentence 1 as a description ("the harbourmaster's log"). Rule 4: "who", "which", "as", "while" and "-ing" descriptions are GIVEN. A noun-phrase possessive description is arguably GIVEN (it presupposes the harbourmaster kept it). Actually "the harbourmaster's log" presupposes the log belongs to/kept by the harbourmaster — that's GIVEN.

Also presupposes the log exists and the harbourmaster exists and the clerk exists — thing lines.

Let me also handle "had written" in sentence 2 — the log world. The attribution: "the harbourmaster had written that..." → content is TOLD in world log_world (or harbourmaster_writing_world). Task: "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." So "the harbourmaster had written that" → attribution to bin; content (the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned) is TOLD in world log_world. Hmm — "that person's world" — the harbourmaster's world. But the writing is in the log. Example_T10D: "The account says ..." → attribution binned, content TOLD in world account_world. So for us: "the harbourmaster had written" → binned (attribution), content TOLD in world log_world (named after the log — what the log says). I'll name world "log_world" = what the log says. Actually to follow example naming, maybe "harbourmaster's writing world". Let me name it `log_world` and state "what the log records".

Hmm, but careful: the actual ledger must contain the fact that the log exists and that it was read (sentence 1). The content of the log is TOLD.

Also "In it" — refers to the log → part of the TOLD scope? "In it, the harbourmaster had written that X" — the writing happening: harbourmaster WRITES in log. That's a happening in the actual world (he wrote it), attributed? Hmm. Actually "the harbourmaster had written that X" asserts (in the actual world) that the harbourmaster wrote that X — i.e., a writing act happened. But the task says send the attribution to bin and write the content as TOLD in that person's world. Following example_T10D, "The account says" went entirely to bin as an attribution, and no writing happening was recorded. It also put a GIVEN line "account is an account". So here: "the harbourmaster had written that" → bin (attribution, which also scopes contents to log_world); the content is TOLD in log_world. Should I also record a happening "harbourmaster wrote log"? In T10D they didn't record a "someone said" happening. To be consistent: bin the attribution frame "the harbourmaster had written that", and give content TOLD in log_world. But then what about the presupposition that the log contains writing / the harbourmaster exists? I could add GIVEN lines: harbourmaster is a person; and maybe fact "the log records entries"? Hmm, keep it moderate.

Let me now do sentence 3: "The log went on to list who had crewed the boat and how much the catch had weighed."
- "went on to list" — the log listed. Two contents: "who had crewed the boat" and "how much the catch had weighed". "who had crewed the boat" is a question word phrase (indirect question) — a question → bin (questions go to bin). Actually "list who had crewed the boat" = the log recorded the crew identities. That's an indirect question — recorded as a question → bin. Similarly "how much the catch had weighed" — quantity + indirect question → bin (numbers, how much). Both to bin. But I could still note content in the log world: the boat had a crew; the catch had a weight? Hmm. "how much the catch had weighed" presupposes the catch weighed something — a fact "the catch had a weight"? That's a presupposition... The instruction "Leave a thing unsaid is different from denying it". Hmm.

I think: bin the two indirect questions with reason "indirect question / who and how much (numbers outside the language)", but I can record the presupposed facts as TOLD: "the boat was crewed" and "the catch weighed something"? That risks inventing. Let me think about what the log world contains: it lists who had crewed the boat and how much the catch had weighed. The presupposition of "who had crewed the boat" is that someone crewed the boat (the boat was crewed) — that's arguably stated as background. Hmm.

I lean: bin both phrases as mentioned questions (the language has no form for questions), and note in the bin reason that the presupposition that the boat was crewed and the catch weighed is... hmm, if I bin it entirely, the presupposition disappears silently. Rule 16: nothing dropped silently — the bin covers it with a reason. That's fine: the bin is where it goes.

But maybe better to preserve: TOLD fact "the boat had a crew" (someone crewed the boat) and TOLD fact "the catch weighed something"? "weighed something" is odd. Alternatively "the catch had been caught"? No.

Hmm. Consider "the catch had weighed" — presupposes a catch existed and weighed something. I could write TOLD fact: "the catch had a weight" — meh.

I think cleanest: keep as TOLD facts the presupposition content that is linguistically asserted background: For "who had crewed the boat": the boat was crewed → TOLD in log_world fact "the boat was crewed". For "how much the catch had weighed": the catch existed and had a weight → I'd write TOLD fact "the catch weighed" ... hmm.

Alternatively, bin both with reason and mark in "Readings I chose" that I treated the presuppositions as part of the binned question content. But rule 16 says bin with reason — that's not silent dropping.

Hmm, but the "good ledger" criterion: another reader given only the ledger and the bin could rebuild what the writer committed to. Since bin entries record the words and the reason, the content is preserved in the bin. Good enough.

Still, I think capturing the presupposed facts as TOLD lines is closer to "what the text commits its writer to". Let me compromise: TOLD fact for sentence 3 content: "the boat was crewed" (from "who had crewed the boat") and "the catch had a weight"? Hmm "the catch had a weight" is a fine plain fact ("weighed" = had a weight). Actually a fact is "THING plus any plain description ('sat on the mat')". "the catch weighed" isn't grammatical alone. I'd write "the catch had been weighed"? No — the catch weighed X, i.e., the catch had a weight. I'll write fact: "the catch had a weight" — hmm, clunky but acceptable as a free description. Or "the catch weighed something" — the "something" is vague.Alternative: treat the whole thing as: the log listed the crew of the boat and the weight of the catch. That's a paraphrase — the log recorded crew identities and catch weight. But paraphrase loses verbatim.

Let me decide: 
- Bin entry for "who had crewed the boat" — reason: "indirect question ('who'); the language records no questions. The presupposed content that the boat was crewed is kept as line X." Wait, then I'd write line X said? Its source mark: it comes from a presupposition of the text — "said" (the writer wrote it, as presupposed background → GIVEN, said). Yes: presuppositions are GIVEN and said. Like the log's possession.

So: line: [GIVEN] TOLD... hmm, standing is one of four: CLAIMED, GIVEN, SUPPOSED in case, TOLD in world. A presupposed fact inside the log's content is TOLD in world log_world (it belongs to the log world). Its givenness is captured by... hmm. Standing can only be one. Since content is inside the log world, standing = TOLD in log_world. Source mark "said".

Hmm, but is the presupposition part of what the log says? "The log listed who had crewed the boat" — the log's content includes the boat's crew. Yes, it's inside the log world.

OK so plan for sentence 3:
- Line: TOLD in log_world: "the boat was crewed" (fact) — said. 
- Line: TOLD in log_world: "the catch had a weight"? Hmm. Actually maybe simpler: "the catch was weighed"? No, the catch itself weighed (intransitive-ish: how much the catch had weighed = the weight of the catch). I'll write fact "the catch had a weight" — plain description. Hmm, or "the catch weighed" as in the ledger's free-form "sat on the mat" style: "the catch weighed what it weighed"? No.

Let me write: TOLD fact: "the catch had a weight" — okay. Hmm, is that trivially true of everything (everything has a weight)? The point is the log recorded the weight. Ugh.

Alternatively, skip the presupposition facts and bin the whole noun phrases with reasons ("indirect question; who/how much outside the language; the presupposed crew and catch are recorded here as noted"). Hmm.

Let me think about what a checker would care about. Honestly, the key content is: the log records crew info and catch weight. The names "who" and "how much" are the answers, which are outside the language. The presupposition facts are minor.

I'll go middle: keep TOLD fact "the boat was crewed" (clear presupposition, meaningful) and TOLD fact "the catch had a weight"...Hmm, actually maybe better: "the catch weighed something" → I'd phrase the fact as "the catch had been weighed"? No. Let me phrase: "[TOLD in world log_world] the catch had a weight" and mark said. Or "[TOLD in world log_world] the catch weighed" is ungrammatical in the table. Use "the catch had a weight".

Hmm, alternatively "the catch's weight" as a thing? No, "how much the catch had weighed" — the property.

Actually maybe cleaner and truer: the log's content: "the boat was crewed" and "the catch had a weight"; and the bin holds "who had crewed the boat" and "how much the catch had weighed" as mentioned questions (the answers are questions/quantities outside the language). I'll do that and note in the bin reason "the presupposed content is kept as line ...".

Also "The log went on to list" — "went on to list" — the listing happening: log LISTS contents. Verb "list" has no shape. But is it a happening with a DOER (the log) and THING? A log is not a doer... The happening "log lists crew and catch" — I can record a happening p2: log LISTS contents. Hmm, the content items are questions, so the happening's object is binned. Maybe just bin the whole "The log went on to list who had crewed the boat and how much the catch had weighed" as: happening p2: log LISTED contents, where contents binned? Messy.

Alternative simpler treatment: keep the presupposed content facts as TOLD lines (said) and put "The log went on to list who had crewed the boat and how much the catch had weighed" in the bin with reason: the listing is a report of two indirect questions ("who", "how much") whose answers are outside the language; the presupposed content is kept in lines X, Y.

Hmm, but "list" as a happening — we should record something. Actually let me record a happening p2: "log LISTS contents" — with no stated content? The happening shape needs DOER VERB THING. Thing = "contents"? I could say: p2: log LISTS the entries of the log... 

Alternatively treat "the log went on to list" as the log-world report frame like "the harbourmaster had written" — i.e., the attribution/report verb goes to the bin and the content becomes TOLD. That's consistent with "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." Hmm, "list" is a reporting verb here. But the content items are questions, which go to bin anyway.

So: sentence 3 handling: bin "The log went on to list who had crewed the boat and how much the catch had weighed." entirely? With reason: reporting frame plus two indirect questions ("who", "how much") whose answers are quantities and identities outside the language; the presupposed content that the boat was crewed and the catch had a weight is kept as TOLD lines x, y.

Hmm — but is "the boat was crewed" needed at all? Let me consider it more. "who had crewed the boat" — the writer commits that the boat had a crew. Yes, I'll keep it. And "the catch" — the writer commits there was a catch with a weight. Keep: "the catch had a weight". Hmm... I could name the fact "the catch weighed what it weighed"? no.

OK let me use: "[TOLD in world log_world] the catch had a weight" — hmm, maybe better: "the catch was weighed" implies someone weighed it — not stated. Use "the catch had a weight". Fine. Actually, I realize a cleaner phrasing: "the catch had weight" or "the catch's weight is a fact"... Let me just use "the catch had a weight". Acceptable.

Hmm, alternatively "the boat had a crew" (instead of "was crewed") — "who had crewed the boat" means who crewed the boat → the boat had a crew. Use "the boat had a crew". Good.

Now the "boat" vs "trawler": sentence 2 says "the trawler crossed the bar"; sentence 3 says "the boat" and "the catch". Is "the boat" the trawler? Likely the same boat (the trawler). That's a reading — coreference. I should record it: words split? No, it's a reading: "Sentence 3: 'the boat' refers to the trawler / to another boat; chosen: the trawler (same thing), filled in." Or keep separate names "the boat" as distinct? Since the text says "crewed the boat" right after talking about the trawler, the natural reading is same boat. Rule: name the things — one plain name. I'll name it "trawler" and note the coreference reading in "Readings I chose", and mark... The coreference isn't a line per se; it's a naming choice. Hmm, but it does affect content: "the boat had a crew" → "the trawler had a crew". Since the name choice is mine, is the line filled in? The content "the boat had a crew" is said (as a presupposition) but the identification of the boat with the trawler is my reading. Per rule 15: mark whole line "filled in" and say which part I added. I'll do that: mark filled in, and the text says "the boat had a crew; I take the boat as the trawler".

Hmm, but careful — "the catch" belongs to that boat. Fine.

Also "crossed the bar early" — "the bar" is a sandbar at the harbour entrance. "early" — when → bin. "crossed the bar" — happening: trawler CROSSES bar. Direction? "crossed" — direction "across"? Directions list: toward X, away from X, up, down, across. So trawler MOVES across bar? Hmm, "crossed the bar" — a happening with verb "cross" (no shape in the shape book) — it's a happening: trawler CROSSES bar. Or is it a Result MOVES across bar? The Result kind: THING MOVES direction ... as a result of happening NAME. Here the text states a movement (crossing the bar) and its cause (the tide had turned). Hmm.

Sentence 2 content (in log_world): "the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned."
- Line: TOLD: fact "the trawler crossed the bar" — could be a happening p1: trawler CROSSES bar. And "the tide had turned" — fact "the tide had turned" or happening: tide TURNS. "turned" — the tide turned (changed). It's an event/happening: tide TURNS. Verb "turn" no shape. Or fact "the tide had turned" (stage in a fact: the tide is turned). Hmm.

Then "because": line: TOLD: "crossing BECAUSE tide_turning" — a causal claim: claim_because(id, crossed_bar(trawler), turned(tide)).

The "because the tide had turned" — "had turned" is a prior change of state of the tide. I'll write it as a happening p2: tide TURNS? But a happening needs DOER VERB THING: "TIDE TURNS" — doer tide, verb turns, thing — none? Hmm. Better as a Fact: "the tide had turned" (stage in a fact, per rule 13: "the door open in the morning"). The tide turned = the tide reached stage "turned". Fact: "the tide had turned" — plain description. Good, keep it as a fact.

Similarly "the trawler crossed the bar" — a happening: trawler CROSSES bar (DOER VERB THING). But "crossed" implies movement across. Alternatively a Result line: trawler MOVES across bar, as a result of happening... — requires a happening. Hmm. The text: "the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned" — the crossing is the effect, the tide turning is the cause. In ledger terms: this is a BECAUSE claim between two happenings/facts. Since "cross the bar" is a verb with no shape, record as Happening: p1: trawler CROSSES bar. And "the tide had turned" as fact. Then BECAUSE: p1 happened BECAUSE fact. Hmm, but claim_because takes effect fact and cause fact in the encoding. "The effect and cause are the same terms as the holds(...) facts of the lines it points at."

So I should write the crossing as a fact: "the trawler crossed the bar" → holds(crossed_bar(trawler)) and "the tide had turned" → holds(turned(tide)). Then claim_because(b1, crossed_bar(trawler), turned(tide)).

But is "crossed the bar" a happening (kind 4) or a fact (kind 2)? The fourteen kinds: Happening "NAME: DOER VERB THING [DIRECTION]" — checked through the verb's shape. Facts are "THING plus any plain description". "the trawler crossed the bar" is really a happening with doer trawler, verb cross, thing bar. But "cross" is not in the shape book, so it'd be "not checked" and counted. I could record both: happening p1: trawler CROSSES bar, and a fact holds(crossed(trawler,bar))? That duplicates. The examples (T10D) recorded "window was opened" as a Fact holds(opened(window)) because opener unnamed, with a note. Here the doer (trawler) is named, so a Happening is right: p1: trawler CROSSES bar. Then for claim_because the effect term must match the holds() fact of the line it points at — but a Happening line's prolog clauses? The guide doesn't give prolog for happenings explicitly. Hmm. Example_A's line 6 "the cold reached the balcony plants" is a Fact holds(reached(the_cold, balcony_plants)) and claim_because(10, dies(balcony_plants), reached(the_cold, balcony_plants)). And line 5 is a general line with produced(...). Happenings in example_A aren't used as holds. Hmm, example_A's ledger lines are Facts mostly.

In example_A.pl, the happening/verb shapes aren't used. The guide says: "A fact that is claimed or given: holds(<fact>) :- line(id)." For happenings the guide gives no explicit prolog form... but presumably holds(happening) too? Hmm. The claim_because needs effect and cause as fact terms matching holds(...) of pointed lines. So I need holds(...) facts for the crossing and the turning.

I think the pragmatic encoding: represent "the trawler crossed the bar" as both a Happening in the table (with its thing lines) and encode prolog as `holds(crossed(trawler, bar)) :- line(p1).` Similarly "the tide had turned" as a Fact with `holds(turned(tide)) :- line(x).` Then claim_because.

Alternatively represent the crossing as a Result: "trawler MOVES across bar, as a result of happening tide_turning" — hmm! Actually that's interesting: the movement "crossed the bar" = the trawler moved across the bar, as a result of the tide turning (a happening). That fits kind 5 Result and kind 6 Link. But the tide turning isn't a "happening" with a doer pressing... "the tide had turned" is described as the cause.

Let me structure sentence 2 as:
- t2 things: trawler, bar, tide (already counted).
- Line: [TOLD in world log_world] the tide had turned — Fact, holds(turned(tide)).
- Line: [TOLD in world log_world] p1: trawler CROSSES bar — Happening (verb "cross", no shape → not checked).
- Actually to enable claim_because, I need a holds fact. I could give the happening line prolog clause `holds(crossed_bar(trawler)) :- line(p1).` and also `happening(p1, crosses(trawler, bar))`? Not in allowed predicates. The allowed predicates list: kind, body, holds, denied, produced, depends, exception, exempt, claim_because, claim_since, denied_because, claim_plan, changes, claim_like, line. So a Happening must be encoded as holds(...) presumably. E.g. `holds(crossed(trawler, bar)) :- line(p1).` Fine — I'll encode happenings as holds(<verb>(<doer>, <thing>)) plus maybe holds(<verb>_by(...)). Keep it simple: `holds(crossed(trawler, bar)) :- line(p1).`

Hmm, but then the movement/direction. "crossed the bar" — direction across. I could encode the Result as `holds(moves_across(trawler, bar))`. Hmm.

Let me decide the structure for sentence 2:
- Line `turn`: TOLD: the tide had turned (Fact). holds(turned(tide)).
- Line `p1`: TOLD: p1: trawler CROSSES bar (Happening). prolog: holds(crossed(trawler,bar)) :- line(p1). Hmm, but a happening is an event; encoding as holds(crossed(trawler,bar)) is like a fact "the trawler crossed the bar" which is exactly the sentence. Fine.
- Line `r1`: TOLD: trawler MOVES across bar, as a result of happening p1? That's weird (the movement is the crossing itself).
- Actually the direction "across" applies to crossing the bar. Maybe: Result line: trawler MOVES across bar, as a result of happening p1 (the crossing). Hmm, redundant.

Simplify: represent "the trawler crossed the bar" as Happening p1: trawler CROSSES bar [across]. And separately note direction in the happening line's content: "p1: trawler CROSSES bar [across]". The direction list includes "across". But "across" in directions is "across" without object ("across X"? the list says "toward X, away from X, up, down, across"). So "[across]".

Then claim_because(b1, crossed(trawler,bar), turned(tide)).

Hmm, wait: is "because" here BECAUSE or SINCE? "the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned" — claims the tide turning produced the crossing → BECAUSE. Yes.

Standing of these lines: TOLD in world log_world (what the log says). But wait — the attribution frame "the harbourmaster had written that" is binned. The content becomes TOLD in log_world. But note in T10D the causal claim was a line `because` TOLD in account_world with claim_because. Same here.

Now "early" → bin (when). "In it" → refers to log. "for the week" → bin (time).

Sentence 4: "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that six boats had tied up before noon."
- Attribution "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that" → bin; content TOLD in world clerk_count_world (her own count's world). Name: "count_world" = what the clerk's count records. Hmm — "noted" is like "wrote/account says". Content: "six boats had tied up before noon" → numbers and time to bin. Content fact kept: "boats had tied up" — hmm, "six boats" is the subject; without the number, "boats had tied up". Should I write "boats tied up"? Let me write the fact as "boats had tied up" with number and time in bin. Hmm, or keep "some boats had tied up"? "some" is also outside ("some, most, few, and numbers"). So just "boats had tied up" (generic plural) — as a fact: holds(tied_up(boats)). Hmm.

Alternatively I could keep the number in the bin and write fact "boats tied up before noon"? No — time to bin.

Hmm, but maybe better to treat "six boats" as a thing: "boats" kind boats. And the fact "boats had tied up". Let me do:
- Thing line: boats is a boat; not stated. TOLD in count_world? The things inside the count world... Hmm. Things are referenced across worlds. In T10D, things inside the told world got TOLD standing. So: "boats" thing line TOLD in count_world.

But "six" — number — bin. The count "six" being binned loses info but that's the language's rule.

Wait — is "six boats" really outside? "Some, most, few, and numbers." Yes, numbers go to the bin. OK.

- "before noon" — when → bin.
- "tied up" = moored/berthed — verb "tie up" no shape. Happening: boats TIE UP (doer boats, verb tie up, thing — ?). "tie up" is intransitive here ("boats tied up"). Hmm, a happening needs DOER VERB THING. "Six boats had tied up" — tied up at the dock (not stated where). Could write as Fact: "boats had tied up" (plain description) — simpler and safe. Actually it's more of a happening/event. Given "tied up" has no shape book entry anyway, either works. Hmm — but the ledger's completeness: "Every thing in a happening gets a thing line." I'll encode as a Fact with holds(tied_up(boats)) and note that it's an eventive fact with no stated object (like T10D's "window was opened"). Actually, to be more faithful I could make it a Happening: p2: boats TIE UP [tied up at the dock not stated]. Hmm, the shape "NAME: DOER VERB THING [DIRECTION]" requires THING. Without an object... "TIE UP" is a verb whose thing isn't stated → "not stated"? 

I think Fact is fine and matches T10D's precedent for an event with an unnamed/absent object. But here the doer IS named (boats). Hmm. T10D chose Fact because the opener was unnamed. Here the doer is named but no object. Let me make it a Happening with thing "not stated"? The rules say "Every thing in a happening must have a thing line of its own" — if there's no thing, nothing to give. Hmm.

Decision: Happening p2: boats TIE UP (thing not stated) — write content "p2: boats TIE UP; the thing tied to is not stated". And prolog: holds(tied_up(boats)) :- line(p2). Hmm, but "the thing tied to is not stated" is like body not_stated. Eh.

Simpler: Fact "the boats had tied up" with a note in Readings that I took "tied up" as a plain description because no object is named. Actually I like a Happening better for the ledger's spirit ("Write who did what to what, and which way"). But "to what" isn't there.

Let me look at it once more: "six boats had tied up before noon" — the boats tied themselves up (moored). It's a change of state of boats. Could also be Result: boats BECOMES [tied up] as a result of happening p2. Overkill.

Final: I'll write it as a Happening: "p2: boats TIE UP" with the note "(thing not stated)" — and in the bin? No. Actually the language: "Happening | NAME: DOER VERB THING [DIRECTION]". If THING is unstated... I'll write "p2: boats TIE UP to a thing not stated" — hmm.

You know what, I'll write it as a Fact: "the boats had tied up" (plain description "had tied up", eventive, object not named) and record in Readings I chose that I took it as a fact description because no object is named and "tie up" has no shape. That keeps the table clean. Hmm, but then "boats" as a DOER... fine.

Hmm, actually there's an argument for Happening since the sentence asserts an event with an actor. And "tie up" is a verb of the press-then-release family conceptually... but not in the shape book → "not checked" and counted (the report carries "the verbs with no shape"). That's informative. I'll go with Happening p2: boats TIE UP (object not stated), and prolog holds(tied_up(boats)). Hmm, but the shape requires THING... 

Let me settle: Happening "p2: boats TIE UP; the thing tied to is not stated". This mirrors "not stated" language in the definition. Good. Actually wait — in T10D "window was opened; opener not named" was a Fact. So the precedent: when a participant is missing, use a Fact. Here the missing participant is the object. Consistency suggests Fact. But T10D's reason was that without a doer you can't write "DOER VERB THING".

Ugh. Both defensible. I'll use Fact "the boats had tied up" with a note "(eventive; the thing tied to is not named)". Hmm, but a Fact is checked for clashes and for what follows — fine.

Hmm, hold on. Let me reconsider: The task emphasizes "Happenings. Write who did what to what, and which way, using the back's own verb." where a happening exists. "six boats had tied up" — who: boats; did what: tied up; to what: (unstated). I'll write it as a happening with "to what" marked not stated. I think that's more faithful to "Write who did what to what". And rule: "Where the text is silent on how a thing answers a press, write 'not stated'" — analogously, where the text is silent on the object, write "not stated".

Final decision: Happening p2: boats TIE UP, thing not stated. In the table content: "p2: boats TIE UP to [not stated]". Hmm, I'd rather write "p2: boats TIE UP; the thing is not stated".

And for the trawler crossing: Happening p1: trawler CROSSES bar [across]. Both have verb-shape issues: "cross" and "tie up" are not in the shape book → not checked. Fine, I'll note that in the count section ("verbs without shape")? The report carries "the verbs with no shape" — that's the checker's report. My section 5 asks for: lines said, lines filled in, lines usual case, sentences that lost something to the bin. I can add a note on verbs without shape in the count or in bin. I'll mention in the count section as extra? The task says "5. The count: lines said, lines filled in, lines usual case, sentences that lost something to the bin." Keep to that; maybe add verbs-without-shape note as a sub-note — the JSON has a translation_gauge in T10D with verbs_without_shape. The guide's JSON schema doesn't require it. I'll keep the JSON to the schema (with the required fields), maybe including optional extras? The guide says "Every field below is required unless marked optional." Extra fields aren't forbidden but let's stick close to schema. Hmm, T10D included "names", "translation_gauge", "author_note", "status", "corpus_question", "question_status". Those were in an example but the schema lists a specific set. I'll include the schema fields and maybe a couple of safe extras? Safer: include exactly the schema fields: paragraph, whose, sentences, bin, leftover, whatifs, lines, words_split, readings_chosen. I'll add "parked" maybe? No — PARKED goes at the very end after? "The parking place: Judgements ... go in a PARKED list at the very end, one line each." The output form lists five sections then TRANSLATION COMPLETE. And the guide says after the five sections, print the JSON. Hmm: "Your printed output has the five sections 39 asks for. After them, print the ledger once more as ONE JSON object". And39 says close with TRANSLATION COMPLETE. The prompt here says "print exactly what the task and the guide ask for, ending with the JSON block and then the words TRANSLATION COMPLETE." So order: five sections, (PARKED at the very end—where? "go in a PARKED list at the very end, one line each. Then return to the line in hand." — i.e., a parking list at the end of the output), then JSON block, then TRANSLATION COMPLETE.

Hmm, "the very end" vs "ending with the JSON block and then TRANSLATION COMPLETE". The user's instruction: print the output ending with the JSON block and then TRANSLATION COMPLETE. So the JSON must be last (before TRANSLATION COMPLETE). Where does PARKED go? I'd put PARKED after section 5 and before the JSON. That satisfies "at the very end" of the five-section prose output. Actually if there are no parked items, I can write "PARKED: (none)". Do I have any? Judgements about reasoning quality — none needed. Maybe one: "Sentence 2's BECAUSE rests on a cause (the tide turning) whose mechanism is unstated" — that's a judgement about reasoning weakness. Hmm, that's really a checker finding. I could park: "The claim that the tide's turning caused the crossing gives no mechanism; the ledger cannot test it since 'cross' and 'turn' have no shapes." That's arguably a judgement. I'll include one parked line to show the section. Or write "PARKED: none." I think including one genuine parked item is good: the reasoning-strength judgement. Let me park: "PARKED: The BECAUSE in line b1 names a cause with no stated mechanism, so it rests on an unstated general line." That's a judgement about whether the writer's reasoning is good — parked. Good.

Also the whatifs JSON field: empty list (no what-if in text).

Now let's carefully build everything.

Sentences (verbatim):
1. "The dockyard clerk read through the harbourmaster's log for the week."
2. "In it, the harbourmaster had written that the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned."
3. "The log went on to list who had crewed the boat and how much the catch had weighed."
4. "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that six boats had tied up before noon."
5. "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier."

Things and names (plain lower-case):
- clerk (dockyard clerk)
- harbourmaster
- log (harbourmaster's log) — name "log"
- trawler
- bar
- tide
- boat → same as trawler (reading) — split? No, coreference reading. Record in Readings.
- catch
- boats (the six boats) — name "boats"
- north pier — name "pier"
- entry (the entry in the log) — the log entry. "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier." The entry = the log's entry for the week. Is "entry" the same as "the log"? Hmm: "the rest of the entry" — the entry in the log (the written entry). The log for the week contains an entry. Is the entry a separate thing from the log? The log is the book; the entry is what was written. I'd treat "entry" as a separate thing: kind "log entry", kept in the log. Or treat as the log itself. I'll make "entry" a thing: entry is a log entry; it is in the log. Hmm — "in it" (sentence 2) refers to the log; "the entry" (sentence 5) refers to what the harbourmaster wrote. Possibly the same. I'll name "entry" as a distinct thing and give a fact "the entry is in the log" — filled in? The text says "In it, the harbourmaster had written..." and "The rest of the entry". The connection entry-in-log is implied. I'll add a filled-in line: "the entry is in the log" (reading connecting 'it' and 'the entry'). Hmm, "In it" = in the log. "The rest of the entry" — the entry being the week's written record. I'll treat entry as part of the log's content. Let me add: thing line "entry is a log entry; not stated" said (the word "entry" appears), and a filled-in fact "the entry is the writing in the log"? Or "the entry is in the log".

Hmm, careful with "in"/"inside" — "Where things are; inside, outside and openings" is outside the language → bin. Hmm! Location is outside the language ("Where things are; inside, outside and openings" go to bin). So "the entry is in the log" would be a location fact → bin! Interesting. Similarly "In it" is a location. Hmm.

But then how do we link the entry to the log? Maybe: the entry is the log's entry (part-whole/ownership), which is not exactly location. Ugh. Simpler: treat "the entry" and "the log" as one thing: name it "log". Then sentence 5: "The rest of the log concerned repairs due on the north pier." That merges things — but the rule says one name one thing, and when a text uses one word in two senses, split. Here two words for arguably one thing. Merging is a reading. Alternatively keep separate: "entry" is the written content of the log.

Hmm. Let me think about what's cleanest for a checker. Sentence 2 "In it" — the log. Sentence 3 "The log went on to list..." — the log. Sentence 5 "The rest of the entry" — the entry. I think the natural reading: the harbourmaster's log has an entry (for the week); "In it" refers to the entry/log. The text's "entry" is the written passage. Since the log-world is "what the log says" = the entry's content, I could name the world "log_world" and the thing "entry" = the log's entry, and state (filled in) "the entry is the log's entry for the week" — a possession/identity relation (not a location). That works: "the entry is the log's entry" is like "the log is the harbourmaster's log" (ownership), which I'm treating as a fact. Hmm, is ownership a location? No. But is "in it" a location? Yes — "In it" as a prepositional phrase about where the writing is → bin ("Where things are; inside, outside and openings").

Hmm, but binning "In it" while keeping the connection requires the identity claim. Let me do:
- Thing: entry is a log entry; not stated. said (sentence 5).
- Fact (filled in): "the entry is the log's entry for the week" — hmm "for the week" is time. Just "the entry is the log's entry". Mark filled in, note: "I take 'the entry' as the entry in the log named in sentence 1; the linking words 'In it' are a place and go to the bin."

Alternatively simpler: merge into one thing "log" and record in "Words I split"/"Readings I chose": "the entry = the log's written entry; I kept them as one thing named log"? Hmm, "Words I split" is for one word two senses. This is two words one thing.

I think keeping "entry" separate with a filled-in link is more faithful (the rest of the entry vs the log listing). But "the log went on to list" (sentence 3) and "the rest of the entry" (sentence 5) — the log lists, the entry concerns. They seem the same record. Honestly merging is defensible and simpler: name it "log" throughout... but sentence 5 "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier" would then be "the rest of the log concerned repairs". Hmm, but then "the rest" implies parts of the entry: part of it is the harbourmaster's writing, part the crew/catch list, part repairs. "The rest" = the remaining part → bin? "The rest" is a quantity-ish/whole-part reference. Hmm, "some, most, few, and numbers" — "the rest" is a quantity of parts → bin? Hmm. "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier" — the content: repairs are due on the north pier (TOLD in log_world). And "the rest" (that it's the remainder) → bin (part/quantity outside).

So sentence 5 content: TOLD in log_world: "repairs are due on the north pier" — fact: holds(due(repairs, north_pier))? "repairs due on the north pier" — repairs are due on the north pier. Also "the entry concerned repairs" — the entry is about repairs → a reporting/contents relation → bin? Hmm.

Let me parse sentence 5: "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier."
- "The rest of the entry" — subject; "the rest" quantity → bin.
- "concerned" — the entry concerned repairs → the entry is about repairs (a topic relation) — that's like "list" (a contents relation). Could be binned as outside (aboutness?). Hmm. The language has no "concerns/about" form. So the aboutness goes to the bin.
- "repairs due on the north pier" — the content: repairs are due on the north pier (TOLD in log_world). "due on the north pier" — "on the north pier" is a location?? "due on the north pier" — the repairs are for the north pier. "on" here is place of the repairs → location → bin? Hmm! "Where things are; inside, outside and openings" — the north pier repairs are located at the north pier. That's a location. Hmm, but "repairs due on the north pier" could be read as "repairs [that are] due, on the north pier" — location of the repairs.

Hmm, that would bin nearly everything. Alternative reading: "repairs due on the north pier" = repairs owed to the north pier / the north pier needs repairs. I could write fact "the north pier needs repairs"? That's a reading/inference. Or fact "repairs are due" + bin "on the north pier" (place). Hmm.

But hold on — maybe the pier relation is a thing-link, not a mere place: "repairs due on the north pier" identifies which repairs: the north pier's repairs. Like "the north pier's repairs". I could write the fact as "the north pier's repairs are due" (a fact about the pier and its repairs). That's ownership-ish, like "the harbourmaster's log". Hmm.

But strictly "on the north pier" is a place phrase. The language says place is outside → bin. But if I bin it, the repairs lose their subject. Options: write fact "repairs are due" and bin "on the north pier" with reason "place of the repairs is outside the language (where things are)". Then note in Readings that another reading makes the pier the thing needing repairs.

Hmm, that loses the pier's involvement entirely except the thing line "pier is a pier".

Alternative: keep "the north pier is the thing the repairs are for" as a filled-in fact, and bin the words "on the north pier" as a place phrase. That preserves info as a filled-in reading. Hmm, rule 9: an added line may not be the claimed line in other words... "may not be the claimed line in other words" — meaning I shouldn't restate the claim as an added line. Writing "the north pier needs repairs" as filled-in is a restatement-ish of a binned piece. Hmm. But it's from a binned fragment, marked filled in. I think it's acceptable if I say in the line which part I added.

Hmm, let me reconsider: maybe "due on the north pier" isn't a location at all in the relevant sense. "Where things are; inside, outside and openings" refers to spatial location of things (inside the room, outside, the door). A pier is a thing; repairs "on" it — hmm, that is a place.

But consider: "the dockyard clerk", "the north pier", "the harbourmaster's log" — these are names. "the north pier" is just a name of a thing (like "the plant by the door" in example A: they wrote "the plant by the door is a tomato plant" — keeping "by the door" inside the name!). Example A line 2: "the plant by the door is a tomato plant" — they kept the locative description in the thing's name. So locative descriptions used as names are kept as names! Great precedent. So "repairs due on the north pier" → I can name the thing "pier repairs" or write fact "the repairs due on the north pier" as a plain fact with a free description. Since a Fact is "THING plus any plain description", and descriptions are free names, I can write: "repairs are due on the north pier" as a Fact with description "due on the north pier". The checker only asks whether two facts are the same fact. That's consistent with example A's "the plant by the door".

OK! So: Fact (TOLD in log_world): "repairs are due on the north pier" — holds(due_on(repairs, north_pier))? Or holds(due(repairs)) with description. I'll write prolog: `holds(due_on_north_pier(repairs)) :- line(x).` Hmm, better to include the pier as an argument: `holds(due(repairs, north_pier)) :- line(x).` Hmm, but consistency with the "free description" idea: `holds(repairs_due_on(north_pier))`? Let me use `holds(due(repairs, north_pier))`. Fine — it's a plain description naming both things.

Similarly "the harbourmaster's log" — name "log", kind "log", and a fact "the log is the harbourmaster's log" → holds(kept_by(log, harbourmaster))? Or name the thing "harbourmaster_log". I'll name it "log" and add fact "the log is the harbourmaster's" (GIVEN). Prolog: `belongs_to(log, harbourmaster)`. Hmm, is "belongs to" a fact description? Fine.

Hmm, actually maybe simpler: name the thing "log" and the kind "log"; the possessive "harbourmaster's" is part of its name/description. I'll add a GIVEN fact "the log is the harbourmaster's log" as said. It captures who wrote it. Keep.

Now let me also handle "the dockyard clerk" — name "clerk", kind "person"? "clerk" is a role. kind(clerk, person)? The text says "clerk" and uses "her" — so a person. kind(clerk, person) said? The kind is checked wherever another line speaks about that kind. I'll say kind(clerk, person) — hmm, is "person" said? The word "person" isn't in the text. The kinds should come from the text's words. Example: "the plant by the door is a tomato plant" — kind from the text's words. For the clerk, the text's word is "clerk" — so kind(clerk, dockyard_clerk)? Then the response class "heavy and standing (a person)" would need a separate body line. The thing line format: "NAME is a KIND; it answers a press as one of the six response classes; it may be a DOER". So kind and response class are separate slots in the same line. In prolog: `kind(X, K)` and `body(X, not_stated)`. So for the clerk: kind(clerk, clerk) is silly. Let me do kind(clerk, person) and body(clerk, not_stated)... but "person" as kind is my word. Hmm, "Give each thing one plain lower-case name" — names are mine. Kinds: the language says "The kind is checked wherever another line speaks about that kind". Using "person" as the kind is natural and it's marked said (from "her"). Hmm, "her" indicates female person — "female" is not needed.

Actually, maybe better: I'll give the response class as "heavy and standing" for persons (clerk, harbourmaster) marked filled in (a class I guessed), and use kind "person" said. Hmm, but then the line mixes marks.

Rule 15: "Where part was said and part is your choice, split the line if you can. If you cannot, mark the whole line filled in and say in it which part you added." Splitting a thing line into kind-line and body-line: possible in the table (two lines) but the prolog for a thing line puts both under one id. Well, I can have two line ids for one thing: id "clerk" (kind) and id "clerk_body" (body). Hmm, that seems fine actually! But the encoding guide says a thing line has both `kind(...)` and `body(...)`. Two lines with one clause each is also fine ("one or more Prolog clauses").

Simplest robust approach: for every thing, one line with kind and body(not_stated), all said (the kind comes from the text; "not stated" is explicitly required when the text is silent — that's not a guess, so it stays "said"? Hmm — "not stated" is the translator recording the text's silence; it's not added content. I'd mark it "said" since it records what the text says about it, i.e., nothing. Hmm, arguably. In T10D all the thing lines with body not_stated were marked "said". Yes! Great precedent. So: one line per thing, mark said, content "X is a KIND; it answers a press as [not stated]".

And for persons, T10D's "account" got body not_stated too. So I'll uniformly use not_stated. But wait — should persons get "heavy and standing"? The definition lists it as a response class for a person. But T10D precedent says not_stated is fine. I'll use not_stated everywhere and note in Readings: "I left every response class as not stated rather than guessing; a class I guessed would be a filled-in line." Hmm, but is that a "reading I chose"? It's more of a policy. I'll note it in the count or in readings. Let me note it in Readings I chose as a global entry? The format is "the sentence, the readings open to me, the one I took". I'll include entries per sentence where relevant. I could add a global note in section 3 or in the bin? I'll add one line in Readings: "Throughout: response class could be guessed for the clerk and the harbourmaster as heavy and standing (a person); chosen: not stated, no class guessed." Fine.

Now kinds:
- clerk: kind person? Let me use kind(clerk, person). Hmm — but "person" isn't a text word... but kinds are the translator's naming too ("Give each thing one plain lower-case name"). Kind "person" is plain. Alternatively kind(clerk, dockyard_clerk). I'd rather use "person" since the response class list ties "heavy and standing (a person)". Hmm, but then two things share kind person which is fine.

Hmm, let me instead use kinds from the text's nouns: clerk → "clerk"? That gives kind(clerk, clerk) — the checker would treat it as a kind with one member. Actually that's harmless and faithful. But weird. Let me look at example_P14: "ALWAYS SHOWS: a helping member pays the cost" with `kind(X, helping_member)`. So kinds can be descriptive roles. OK.

I'll use:
- clerk → kind: person (said) — hmm. Let me decide: kind(clerk, person) — I'll mark said and note in readings that "person" is the plain kind for "clerk"/"harbourmaster" (both called persons by the text's "her" and roles). Hmm, "the harbourmaster" is a role too.

Alternatively: kind(clerk, dockyard_clerk) and kind(harbourmaster, harbourmaster). Ugly but faithful and each kind has one member. Hmm.

I'll go with "person" for both, and record the roles as fact descriptions? "the clerk is a dockyard clerk" — the kind could be "dockyard_clerk". Hmm.

Decision: kind(clerk, person) and kind(harbourmaster, person), said, with a note in Readings that I used "person" as the plain kind for the two named roles. Good enough. Actually, maybe simpler to avoid any question: kind(clerk, dockyard_clerk), kind(harbourmaster, harbourmaster). Then in a general line referencing persons... there are none. Hmm, but "person" links the response class.

Ugh, I'm overthinking. Let me use "person" for both — it's plain, lower-case, and matches the language's own category name "heavy and standing (a person)". I'll say so in Readings.

Other kinds:
- log → kind: log
- entry → kind: log_entry (or "entry"). Use kind: entry? "entry is an entry" — silly. Use "log_entry". Fine.
- trawler → kind: trawler
- bar → kind: bar (a sandbar) — hmm "the bar" at a harbour mouth. kind(bar, sandbar)? The text says "bar". Use kind: bar. Hmm, "crossed the bar" — the bar is an obstacle/shoal. I'll use kind(bar, sandbar)? That's a guess (filled in). Use kind(bar, bar) — no. Use "sandbar" as the plain name for the kind and "bar" as the thing name? Then the kind word is mine ("sandbar"). Hmm, "Give each thing one plain lower-case name" — the name "bar" is the text's. The kind can be "sandbar" — but that's adding knowledge. Safer: kind(bar, bar)??Look at T10D: kind(window, window), kind(letter, letter), kind(account, account)! So yes — they used the thing name as the kind when the text gave no further classification. Great, that resolves it: use kind(thing, thing_kind) where kind = the thing's own noun: clerk→? The thing is named "clerk", kind "clerk". Hmm, in T10D the things were named "window", "letter" and kinds "window", "letter". So name = kind word. So: kind(clerk, clerk)? They named the thing "account" with kind "account". OK so it's fine to use the same word. But for clerk I want to note she's a person... The response class slot covers that ("heavy and standing (a person)").

Alright, do this:
- clerk is a clerk; it answers a press as [not stated]... hmm, but then I lose the personhood. Eh, the name says it.

Hmm, let me use a middle: kinds = "person" for clerk and harbourmaster (both persons; the text's pronouns show it), "log" for log, "entry" for entry...FINAL DECISION (stop dithering): kinds as follows, all said:
- clerk is a person
- harbourmaster is a person
- log is a log
- entry is an entry (kind "entry" — hmm). Let me name the thing "entry" and kind "log entry"→ atom log_entry. Fine.
- trawler is a trawler? Use "boat"? The text: "the trawler", "the boat" (same). kind(trawler, boat)! That's nice: trawler is a boat. said? The text calls it "trawler" and "boat" — if I read them as the same thing, the kind "boat" comes from "the boat". If I don't merge, then "boat" is its own thing. Hmm!Interesting: sentence 3 "who had crewed the boat" — "the boat" with the definite article after "the trawler" strongly suggests same referent. If I merge: trawler is a boat (kind), and the catch belongs to the trawler. I'll merge and mark the merge as a reading; the kind line "trawler is a boat" — the "boat" word is said but the identification is mine → mark filled in? Rule 15 → the whole line filled in with a note. Hmm, but T10D marked thing lines said.Alternative: keep "boat" as a separate thing from "trawler" (no merge), each named. Then "the boat had a crew" is TOLD about "boat", and the reader can see the possible identity in "Readings I chose". Hmm, but that creates a phantom thing.

I think merging is right (definite reference). I'll write:
- Thing line "trawler": "trawler is a boat; it answers a press as [not stated]" — mark "filled in"? The words "trawler" and "boat" both appear; the line says trawler is a boat. The assertion "the trawler is a boat" is supported by the text's "the boat". Honestly "said" is defensible since both words are the writer's. But the identification is my reading.

Cleanest: mark the trawler thing line "said" (name and kind both from the text: "the trawler", "the boat") and record in "Readings I chose": "Sentence 3: 'the boat' = the trawler (chosen) or a different boat; chosen: same thing, so the trawler's kind is boat." Hmm but the reading's choice affected the line → per the trap "When a sentence could be literal or figurative... mark what you wrote from it 'filled in'". This is coreference, not literal/figurative. Rule: "readings of slips" go to readings section. Coreference resolution is a reading → "Readings I chose" entry. Mark of the line: I'll mark the trawler thing line "filled in" and say which part I added (the identification with "the boat"). Hmm, but then the kind "boat" is my consolidation.

Hmm, alternatively keep it simpler: name the thing "trawler", kind "trawler", and treat "the boat" as a separate name for the same thing recorded in the name table (JSON "names" field in T10D had names). And the fact "the boat had a crew" → "the trawler had a crew" with the identification in Readings. The fact line's mark: the content (having a crew) is said (presupposed); the name substitution is my reading → mark filled in, note "I take 'the boat' as the trawler".

Hmm, that's a lot of "filled in" noise but it's honest. Alternatively keep the fact about "boat" as a separate thing and add a filled-in identity line "the boat is the trawler". Then the fact line is said. That's the cleanest for marking! 
- Thing: boat is a boat; not stated. said (from sentence 3). Hmm, but if they're the same thing, having two thing lines violates "One name, one thing"...

Hmm. But adding an identity line "line X: boat is the trawler" (filled in) — then the checker sees they're the same. Is there a content kind for identity? Fact: "boat is the trawler" (THING plus plain description). OK.

Hmm, but "One name, one thing. Use plain lower-case words." implies one name per thing — so if boat=trawler, one name. Then I should use one name and note the split/merge in Readings. And the mark for lines involving "boat" — since the identification is my reading, mark filled in and say which part.

Hmm OK here's my resolution: 
- Use name "trawler" throughout (record "boat" as a name for the same thing in the names/readings).
- Thing line for trawler: mark "filled in", content: "trawler is a boat; it answers a press as [not stated] — I take 'the boat' of sentence 3 as this trawler; the kind 'boat' is the writer's word for it". Hmm, mixing.

Alternative: make the thing line "trawler is a trawler" said (clean) and put the boat identification in a separate filled-in line "the trawler is the boat of sentence 3"? That's the identity line again but with one name for the thing... but then it mentions "boat" as a second name.

You know, I think a single thing line: "trawler is a boat" marked said is fine and defensible — the writer wrote both "trawler" and "boat" about the same vessel. I'll note the coreference reading in "Readings I chose" (which is exactly where readings belong) and in "Words I split"? No. Readings. And I'll state the mark rationale in the reading entry.

Hmm, but the counting section reports marks. Fine.

Let me just decide: mark "said", and in Readings I chose: "Sentence 3: 'the boat' could be the trawler or another boat. Chosen: the trawler, so the thing line reads 'trawler is a boat' and the catch and crew belong to the trawler." OK good.

Now, let me write out all lines.

Things (each gets a thing line):
1. clerk — sentence 1. "clerk is a person; it answers a press as [not stated]" (mark said). Hmm, "DOER" flag: it may be a DOER — the clerk is the doer of p1. Do I need to record that? "it may be a DOER" is part of the thing line content. In T10D's prolog there was no doer predicate. So no.
2. log — sentence 1. "log is a log; answers a press as [not stated]". said.
3. harbourmaster — sentence 1 (possessive). "harbourmaster is a person; ...". said. Standing: sentence 1's possessive "the harbourmaster's log" — presupposition → GIVEN. Hmm! Standing for the thing line of the harbourmaster: the sentence presupposes a harbourmaster exists → GIVEN, said. Similarly the log's existence is presupposed ("the harbourmaster's log for the week")? Sentence 1 asserts "The clerk read through the log" — the log's existence is presupposed → GIVEN? Hmm. Rule 4: "the main clause is CLAIMED; 'who', 'which', 'as', 'while' and '-ing' descriptions are GIVEN." The main clause "The dockyard clerk read through the log" is CLAIMED (the reading happened). The things' existence is presupposed → GIVEN. In T10D: "The account's existence is GIVEN" — they gave the account thing line standing GIVEN. And things inside the told world were TOLD.

So: things mentioned in the actual text as presupposed existents → GIVEN. Things inside the log's content → TOLD in log_world. Things inside the clerk's count → TOLD in count_world.

But the trawler, bar, tide are mentioned only inside the log's content → TOLD in log_world. The boats and pier mentioned in sentence 5's content (log world) and sentence 4's content (count world). Hmm, "the north pier" — in "repairs due on the north pier" which is TOLD in log_world. And "boats" in the count world.

Hmm, but is that right? The pier is presumably a real place the writer refers to, but as content of the log. The strict reading: sentence 5 says "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier" — the assertion in the actual world is about the entry's content ("the entry concerned X"). So the content X ("repairs due on the north pier") is TOLD in the log world. Following T10D's pattern ("The account says X" → X is TOLD in account_world), yes.

But careful: is sentence 5's main clause "The rest of the entry concerned repairs" an actual-world claim (the entry is about repairs)? Yes — CLAIMED in the actual ledger. But "the entry concerned repairs" is a topic relation — no form in the language → bin. Then what remains in the actual ledger from sentence 5? "the rest" (bin), "concerned" (bin), leaving only "repairs due on the north pier" as TOLD content? Hmm, but the content is what the entry concerns, i.e., the entry's content is TOLD in log_world. Right.

Hmm, but wait: is "repairs due on the north pier" content of the log world or a claim in the actual world? "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier" — the writer asserts that the entry is about repairs due on the pier. The repairs being due is part of the entry's content → TOLD in log_world. But arguably the writer also asserts in the actual world that repairs are due... no, it's "the entry concerned", i.e., reported. Following T10D, TOLD. But hmm, in sentence 5 the framing verb "concerned" is not "says" exactly... "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier" = the remaining part of the entry was about repairs due on the north pier. The entry is a written record, so its content is reported → TOLD.

Hmm, but there's a subtlety: is the writer committing (in the actual world) that repairs are due on the north pier? Only via the entry's reliability, which isn't asserted. So TOLD. But note "the rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier" also asserts in the actual world that the entry has a part concerning repairs → that's a fact about the entry: "the entry concerns repairs" — hmm, that's the aboutness relation which has no form... Actually it does have a form! A Fact: "THING plus any plain description" — "the entry concerns repairs" is a plain description! Facts are free-form descriptions. Hmm, but then the checker only asks whether two facts are the same fact — so "the entry concerns repairs" would be a harmless fact. Hmm. But "concerns" relates to content...

Hmm, careful: If I write a fact "the entry concerns repairs due on the north pier" that's a fact whose description includes the content — then the content isn't separately TOLD. Hmm.

Let me think about the goal: "write down what the text commits its writer to". The writer commits: (actual) the clerk read the log; the log has an entry with parts; the entry's content includes (per the log/harbourmaster) that the trawler crossed the bar because the tide turned, the crew of the boat, the weight of the catch; (the clerk's count) boats tied up before noon; and the rest of the entry concerns repairs due on the north pier.

For the last part, the minimal faithful encoding:
- Bin: "The rest of the entry concerned" (aboutness + partitive "the rest" outside the language).
- TOLD in log_world: "repairs are due on the north pier".

Hmm, but the aboutness "concerned" also frames it as log content. Since I'm binning the frame words, I must record why the content is TOLD in log_world — in the bin reason: "the words 'the rest of the entry concerned' are the framing words (partitive 'the rest' and the aboutness verb 'concerned', both outside the language); the content they frame is kept as TOLD in log_world."

Hmm — but should the content "repairs are due on the north pier" be TOLD (reported) or CLAIMED? The sentence's main clause "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier" is CLAIMED in the actual world — it claims the entry concerns X. The X content is inside. If I bin the framing, the content... Hmm. Consider parallel: sentence 3 "The log went on to list who had crewed the boat and how much the catch had weighed" — main clause CLAIMED (the log listed ...), contents are the log's → TOLD.

Yes, TOLD is right for content of a written record.

But hmm, alternatively, one could argue "repairs due on the north pier" is a real-world fact the writer asserts (the entry's content, and the writer treats the entry as authoritative?). No — keep TOLD. Actually hmm, hold on. Let me reconsider. There's an argument that these are GIVEN/CLAIMED in the actual ledger since the writer's point is describing the entry's content, not asserting the repairs. Right — TOLD.

Now what about the linking between the entry and the log? "In it" (sentence 2) refers to the log. "the entry" (sentence 5) — the entry in the log. Since location is outside, I'll add a filled-in fact "the entry is the log's entry for the week"→ without "for the week": "the entry is the log's entry" (a possession/identity). Hmm, is "part of the log" a location? It's a whole-part relation, like ownership. I'll phrase it as "the entry is the log's entry" (possessive like "harbourmaster's log"), mark filled in, note "I take the entry of sentence 5 as the entry in the log of sentence 1; the linking words 'In it' name a place and go to the bin."

Hmm, is that a needed line? Without it, "entry" floats. I'll include it. And the entry's existence is presupposed by "the rest of the entry" → GIVEN? It's presupposed in sentence 5. But it's also part of what's reported... Hmm. The entry is a real thing (the log's written entry) in the actual world → GIVEN (presupposed). And its contents are TOLD in log_world.

Wait, but careful: if the entry exists in the actual world and its contents are in log_world... consistent with T10D (the account exists in the actual world; its contents are TOLD). Good.

Now, the log's contents are TOLD in log_world. The "entry" is the record. Actually maybe I should name the world "entry_world"? Or "log_world" = what the log (entry) records. Let me name the world "log_world" and describe it "what the log records". Fine. Hmm, but sentence 4's content is the clerk's own count — different source. Name "count_world" = what the clerk's count records.

Hmm, careful with TOLD for sentence 4: "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that six boats had tied up before noon." Per rule: "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." "Noted" = recorded. So attribution "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that" → bin; content TOLD in count_world. Hmm — but is "noted" a belief/attribution or a record? It's a record like "wrote". T10D treated "The account says" as an attribution binned with content TOLD. Consistent: bin the frame, content TOLD in count_world (the clerk's count's world). Hmm, but "from her own count" — her count. The world is what her count shows.

Hmm, alternatively "the clerk noted X" could be taken as CLAIMED in the actual world (the writer asserts the clerk noted it, i.e., she recorded it). Following T10D strictly: bin the attribution words and put content in a named world. But T10D's bin reason said "The account's existence is GIVEN; neither its described opening, its dryness nor its causal claim is asserted in the actual ledger." So all content went to the world.

But hmm — for sentence 4, one might say the clerk's own count is first-hand evidence and the writer asserts it. But the rule is mechanical: attribution → bin; content → TOLD in that person's world. Do it.

So count_world contains: "boats had tied up" (minus "six", minus "before noon").

Hmm, is that nearly empty? The binned material: "six" (number), "before noon" (time). And the presupposition "boats had tied up" retained. Hmm, "six boats had tied up before noon" — the core assertion is the number and timing, both outside the language! So the content fact "boats tied up" is nearly vacuous but non-vacuous (it asserts boats tied up).

Hmm. Alternatively, I could bin the whole content "six boats had tied up before noon" with reason "the sentence's content is a count and a time, both outside the language; nothing is left that the language can record". That would be more honest! Because "boats had tied up" without number or time loses the actual claim. Hmm. But it does retain that boats tied up.

Which is better? The "good ledger" test: another reader given the ledger and the bin could rebuild what the writer committed to. Since bin entries record the words and the reason, the content is preserved in the bin. If I keep "boats had tied up" as a line AND bin "six"/"before noon", the reader gets both. I prefer keeping the fact and binning the number and the time separately (two bin entries). That's more complete. But careful: the number "six" is an essential part of "six boats" (the subject). If I bin "six" and keep "boats had tied up", I'm asserting something weaker than stated — is that OK? It's a weakening, not a distortion. Fine. But should the mark be "said"? The words "boats had tied up" are part of the sentence → said.

Hmm, but "six" identifies which boats. Without it, "boats" is generic. I'll name the thing "boats" and note in the bin "six" with reason "number, outside the language; the thing line keeps 'boats' without the count".

Hmm, alternatively keep "six boats" as the thing name "six boats"? Names should be plain lower-case words; numbers... "Some, most, few, and numbers" outside → bin. OK.

Let me structure bin entries carefully, each with the words and reason.

Now sentence 2 details: "In it, the harbourmaster had written that the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned."
- "In it," — place reference → bin (where things are). Also it's the linking phrase. Bin: "In it," — reason: "place phrase ('in it'); where things are is outside the language. The link between the log and the entry is written as a filled-in line instead."- "the harbourmaster had written that" — attribution → bin. reason: "the attribution 'had written that' frames the content; the attribution is sent to the bin and the content is written as TOLD in log_world."
- "early" — when → bin.
- Content: "the trawler crossed the bar" and "the tide had turned" and "because".

Sentence 1 details: "The dockyard clerk read through the harbourmaster's log for the week."
- "read through" — happening p1: clerk READS log. Verb "read" no shape → noted.
- "for the week" — time period → bin.
- "the harbourmaster's log" — possessive → fact "the log is the harbourmaster's log" GIVEN said. Hmm, is possession outside the language? "Outside the language: How much, how fast, how hard. Where things are; inside, outside and openings. When... Who believes, knows or wants what. Whether someone acted on purpose. Some, most, few, and numbers. May, must, should... Several causes... Figures of speech, tone, irony. Questions and commands." Possession is not listed as outside. Facts can have free descriptions. So a fact "the log is the harbourmaster's log" is fine. Good.

Sentence 3: "The log went on to list who had crewed the boat and how much the catch had weighed."
- "The log went on to list" — reporting frame → bin? Or a happening p2: log LISTS contents. Hmm. "went on to list" — the log continued and listed. "went on" = continued (sequence) → maybe bin ("went on" as continuation). The listing is the log's reporting verb → per the attribution rule, bin the frame and write content as TOLD. The contents are two indirect questions → bin entirely.

Hmm, so sentence 3 could end up almost entirely in the bin: the frame "The log went on to list" (reporting frame + "went on" continuation), "who had crewed the boat" (indirect question), "how much the catch had weighed" (indirect question + quantity). Plus the presupposed facts kept as TOLD lines.

I think that's the honest result. Let me keep the presupposed facts:
- TOLD in log_world (GIVEN standing? no — standing must be one; the content is in the log world so TOLD in log_world): "the trawler had a crew" and "the catch had a weight".

Hmm, wait. Is the presupposition content "in the log world"? "The log listed who had crewed the boat" — the crew is part of the log's content. Yes, TOLD in log_world.

But hmm, there's a subtlety: the presupposition "the boat was crewed" is arguably committed by the writer in the actual world (factive presupposition of "list who crewed the boat"). Ugh. For "The account says the window opened" — T10D put "opened(window)" in account_world. And presuppositions of a report usually project... but T10D kept everything in the world. For "list who had crewed the boat", the presupposition that the boat was crewed projects to the actual world arguably. Hmm.

Hmm. Let me think again about which is more faithful. Presupposition projection: "The log listed who had crewed the boat" → the writer presupposes there was a crew for the boat (i.e., someone crewed the boat). This is a factive-ish presupposition that typically projects out of "listed that/who". Actually "list who crewed the boat" is not a factive verb taking a that-clause; it's a question-complement. The existence of an answer (i.e., that someone crewed the boat) is presupposed and projects.

Similarly "the harbourmaster had written that the trawler crossed the bar" — "write that P" is not factive ("he wrote that P" doesn't presuppose P). But "who had crewed the boat" — the existence of a crew is presupposed (a wh-question presupposes the existence of an answer... strictly, "who crewed the boat" presupposes someone crewed the boat).

And "how much the catch had weighed" presupposes the catch existed and weighed something.

So: the boat had a crew and the catch existed with a weight are presupposed in the actual world. Hmm, but they are also the log's content. Both? A line has one standing.

Given the complexity, maybe simplest and most defensible: put them TOLD in log_world (they are what the log records), and note in Readings that one could also read the presuppositions as projecting into the actual ledger; I chose TOLD. That's honest. Or the reverse.

Hmm. I think for a "who had crewed the boat" the natural commitment of the writer is: the boat was crewed (actual). But since it's inside the log's list... 

Let me consider the checker's perspective: it looks at the actual ledger and at worlds alone. If "the trawler had a crew" is only in log_world, the actual ledger has less. If it's in the actual ledger as GIVEN, that's a background assumption. Rule 4: "Standing follows what the sentence asserts and what it takes for granted. Grammar is the usual clue: the main clause is CLAIMED; 'who', 'which', 'as', 'while' and '-ing' descriptions are GIVEN." — This suggests presupposed/backgrounded content is GIVEN. And "TOLD is what a story, a report, a note or a dream says". "Who had crewed the boat" is what the log says → TOLD.

Since the phrase is explicitly inside "The log ... list[ed] who had crewed the boat", it's what the log says → TOLD. The standing options: TOLD in world log_world. I'll go TOLD and note the alternative in Readings. Hmm, but the presupposition... 

Alternative approach that resolves this: since the presupposition is a background commitment of the writer, write it as GIVEN in the actual ledger: "[GIVEN] the trawler had a crew" — hmm, but the source is the log.

Ugh. Decision: TOLD in log_world, with a reading note that presupposition projection could put it in the actual ledger as GIVEN. Hmm, hmm. Actually, hold on. Let me reconsider the whole framing of sentences 2-5.

The whole paragraph is about what's in the log and what the clerk noted. The writer's actual-world commitments: the clerk read the log (and its contents as contents), the clerk counted boats. Everything else is reported content.

But a nuance: "the log went on to list who had crewed the boat and how much the catch had weighed" — the writer (the narrator) is describing the log. The narrator asserts the log listed these things. The content (crew, catch weight) is the log's. So TOLD.

But the presupposition that the boat was crewed and had a catch... The narrator wouldn't commit to that beyond the log. So TOLD. Good, TOLD it is.

Now, should I even keep the presupposition facts at all? I'll keep them as TOLD facts, mark "said" (they come from the text's presupposed words), and bin the question phrases. Wait, but the words "the boat had a crew" don't literally appear; the words are "who had crewed the boat". So the fact "the trawler had a crew" is derived from a presupposition → is that "said"? It's the text's commitment (presupposed), so "said" seems right (it's not my addition — the writer wrote "who had crewed the boat"). Hmm, but the form "had a crew" vs "was crewed by someone"... I'll mark "said" and note in Readings that the wh-question's presupposition is kept as a fact while the question goes to the bin. Hmm, but strictly the words "who had crewed the boat" go to the bin and the fact is extracted from them — is the extraction a "reading"? The trap says "Quoted commands and questions. Send them to the bin, recorded as mentioned." These aren't quoted questions but indirect questions. And "Questions and commands" are outside the language → bin.

I'll mark those two fact lines "filled in" and say in the line which part I added — since the surface form is a question and the fact is my extraction of its presupposition. Hmm. That seems safest per rule 15 ("Where part was said and part is your choice... mark the whole line filled in and say in it which part you added"). Hmm, but it isn't "my choice" — it's linguistically encoded content.

Let me weigh: The checker tests "added lines" (filled in + usual case) by taking out the writer's lines. Marking these "filled in" flags them as translator additions. Given the words are literally a question (binned), the fact line is indeed constructed by me. I'll mark "filled in" and note: "the presupposed content of the binned question 'who had crewed the boat'". Actually hmm — that would then count as translator work.

Alternatively mark "said" because the writer wrote "had crewed the boat" — the words "the boat had been crewed" are literally there minus "who". "who had crewed the boat" contains "had crewed the boat". So the presupposition is literally the writer's words with "who" removed. So "said" is defensible! I like that: the words "had crewed the boat" (with the boat as object) are the writer's.

Similarly "how much the catch had weighed" → "the catch had weighed" — the writer's words minus "how much". Fact: "the catch had weighed" → as a plain description "the catch had a weight"? Hmm. I could write the fact exactly as "the catch had weighed" — a bit odd but it's the writer's words. Or "the catch had a weight". Hmm, "weighed" intransitive means "had (such) a weight". I'll write: "the catch had weighed" with a note? In the table content: "[TOLD in world log_world] the catch had weighed (i.e., the catch had a weight; 'how much' goes to the bin)". Hmm — adding a gloss inside the content... Rule 15 allows "say in the line which part you added". OK.

Let me simplify: write fact "the catch had a weight", mark said, and in the bin reason for "how much" note that "how much" (the quantity) is outside while the presupposed weight is kept as line x. Hmm, but then the words don't match...I'll write content as: "[TOLD in world log_world] the catch had weighed" — keeping the writer's words exactly (minus "how much"). prolog: holds(weighed(catch)). Hmm, atom "weighed(catch)" — fine.

Similarly "the trawler had been crewed" from "who had crewed the boat" → content "the trawler had been crewed"? The words are "had crewed the boat" (active with "who" as subject). The presupposition: someone crewed the boat. As a fact: "the trawler had a crew"? or "the trawler had been crewed"? Hmm, "had crewed the boat" = the boat was crewed by them. I'll write: "[TOLD in world log_world] the trawler had been crewed" — hmm, the words say "had crewed the boat". Converting active to passive is a transformation... ugh.

Maybe simplest: write the fact as "the trawler had a crew" and mark "filled in" with the note "I take the question 'who had crewed the boat' to presuppose that the trawler had a crew; the question itself goes to the bin." Clean and honest. Similarly "the catch had weighed" → hmm.

Let me do:
- Line (filled in): [TOLD in log_world] the trawler had a crew — "I take the binned question 'who had crewed the boat' to presuppose a crew for the boat".
- Line (filled in): [TOLD in log_world] the catch had weighed — hmm.

For the catch: "how much the catch had weighed" presupposes the catch existed and had a weight. Write "[TOLD in log_world] the catch had a weight" filled in with the same kind of note. Or skip it entirely (bin it whole). Hmm.

Honestly, maybe I should just bin the two question phrases whole and note in the bin reasons that the presupposed crew and catch-weight are recorded as lines (if I write them) — Let me write both as filled-in lines. It shows care and the bin has the questions. OK decided:

Lines for sentence 3:
- x1 (filled in): [TOLD in world log_world] the trawler had a crew. Note: "the presupposed content of the binned question 'who had crewed the boat'; the question form and its answer are outside the language."
- x2 (filled in): [TOLD in world log_world] the catch had a weight. Note similarly.
Hmm, "the catch had a weight" — is this meaningful? It says the catch existed and had a weight. Fine.

Hmm, is "the catch" a thing? Yes, thing line: catch is a catch? kind(catch, catch)... hmm. kind(catch, fish)? Guessing. Use kind(catch, catch)? T10D precedent uses the noun itself. Hmm, "catch" as a kind is odd. Let me use kind(catch, catch) — meh. Alternative name the thing "catch" and kind "catch"... OK, whatever, use "catch" as its kind word like T10D used "letter" for "letter". Hmm, but "letter" is a natural kind word; "catch" is a mass noun. I'll use kind(catch, catch) to avoid guessing "fish". Hmm... Actually maybe kind(catch, catch) is fine: "catch is a catch; it answers a press as [not stated]".

Similarly "boats is a boat", "bar is a bar"? Hmm "bar is a bar" is silly but consistent with T10D's "window is a window". Fine. Actually, hmm, for the bar I might prefer "sandbar" — but that's a guess (filled in). Keep "bar is a bar". Hmm... but "bar" could be misread. It's fine.

- entry is an entry? Let me name it "entry" and kind "entry": "entry is an entry". Hmm. Alternatively kind "log entry" → log_entry. I'll do: "entry is a log entry" — the text says "the entry" in the log context. Mark said. Fine.

- pier: "pier is a pier" — or name "north pier" and kind "pier": thing name "pier", described "north pier". The name "pier" plain lower-case. And the description "north" is in the fact "repairs are due on the north pier". Hmm, the fact's description "due on the north pier" references the pier. In prolog: holds(due_on(repairs, pier))?? Hmm, but "north" identifies it. I'll name the thing "north_pier"? Names should be "plain lower-case words... Names that end in an underscore and a number" are bad; underscores fine. The guide says line ids have no spaces; thing atoms use underscores (e.g., group_structure). So thing atom "north_pier" is fine. Name in the prose table: "the north pier". I'll use name "pier" and note "the north pier" as its name... Simpler: name it "north pier" (two words) in prose, atom north_pier. Hmm, "Give each thing one plain lower-case name" — "north pier" is plain. OK: name "north pier", atom north_pier, kind "pier".

Similarly "north pier" and "the bar" — name "bar", atom bar.

Let me name things:
- clerk (atom clerk) — "the dockyard clerk"
- harbourmaster (atom harbourmaster)
- log (atom log)
- entry (atom entry)
- trawler (atom trawler) — also called "the boat"
- bar (atom bar)
- tide (atom tide)
- catch (atom catch)
- boats (atom boats) — the six boats
- north pier (atom north_pier)
- repairs (atom repairs) — "repairs due on the north pier" — are repairs a thing? They're the topic. In the fact "repairs are due on the north pier", "repairs" is a thing-ish. Should I give "repairs" a thing line? "Every thing in a happening must have a thing line of its own" — repairs aren't in a happening; they're in a fact. Thing lines are required for things in happenings. But it's good practice to give a thing line to anything referenced. Hmm, the count of things... Let me give repairs a thing line too: "repairs is a set of repairs; not stated"? Hmm, that's inventing. Actually a fact's description can name a thing without a thing line? The rule only requires thing lines for things in happenings. But the checker's `kind` checks apply where another line speaks about that kind. For simplicity and completeness, I'll add a thing line for repairs: "repairs is a repair job; ...". Hmm.

Let me decide which things need lines: all things mentioned. I'll include repairs with kind "repair" and body not_stated, mark said (the word "repairs" is in the text). Hmm, but is "repairs" a thing or a description? "repairs due on the north pier" — repairs are things (jobs). I'll include it. Actually, hmm, it adds noise. But rule 3: "Every thing in a happening must have a thing line of its own" — repairs aren't in a happening. And facts' descriptions are free names. I'll skip the thing line for repairs and let the fact's atom carry it. Hmm, but then `holds(due(repairs, north_pier))` references an atom without a kind... The checker's `kind` checks apply "wherever another line speaks about that kind" — no kind needed.

Hmm, but "Every thing has one name, used throughout" is a check. Let me just give repairs a thing line — it's cheap and safer for "another reader could rebuild". Hmm, but is it a "thing"? "Give every thing in a happening a thing line." I'll add thing lines for: clerk, harbourmaster, log, entry, trawler, bar, tide, catch, boats, north pier. And skip repairs (it's the subject of a fact description)...Hmm. Let me include it. "repairs is a repair; it answers a press as [not stated]" — hmm "a repair" is weird. Alternatively I treat the fact as "the north pier is due repairs"? no.

OK let me include a thing line for repairs with kind "repairs"... ugh. Alternatively phrase the fact to avoid a repairs thing: "the north pier needs repairs" (reading). No.

Decision: include thing line "repairs" with kind "repair work"? I'll do: name "repairs", kind "repairs" (like T10D's pattern of kind=name). Content: "repairs is a repair job; it answers a press as [not stated]". Hmm.

Hmm, simpler: "repairs is a repairs"... no. Let me write: "repairs is a repair job". OK fine. Mark said (word "repairs" in text).

Hmm, actually maybe not a thing at all — "repairs due on the north pier" is part of a description. Ugh. I'll include it; more complete is better than less.

Now, is "six boats" one thing ("boats") or six things? Numbers outside. Use one thing "boats" (plural) — kind "boat". Fine.

Let me now write the lines in order.

Sentence 1:
- Line `clerk` (thing): "[GIVEN] clerk is a person; it answers a press as [not stated]" — standing GIVEN (presupposed existent), mark said, sentence 1.

Hmm wait: is the clerk's existence presupposed or asserted? "The dockyard clerk read through the log" — asserts the reading; the clerk's existence is entailed/presupposed. The main clause asserts → the existence is GIVEN along the way. In T10D, "the account exists" was GIVEN. But in T10D the whole sentence was a report ("The account says..."), so the actual-world content was only the account's existence. Here, sentence 1's main assertion is the reading event (CLAIMED), and the things' existence is background → GIVEN. I'll mark thing lines GIVEN where they are presupposed existents in the actual world, and TOLD where they belong to a told world.

Hmm, but the trawler/bar/tide exist only in the log's content → TOLD in log_world. But they're things; their thing lines would be TOLD in log_world. In T10D, window and letter thing lines were TOLD in account_world. Great, consistent.

But careful: the count-world things (boats) — TOLD in count_world. And "north pier" appears in the log world's content (repairs due on the north pier) → TOLD in log_world. And "repairs" → TOLD in log_world. And "catch" → TOLD in log_world. And "tide" → TOLD in log_world.

Hmm, but wait: is the north pier a real dockyard thing? It's referenced in the entry's content. Strictly TOLD in log_world. Hmm, but the reader knows it's a real pier. Following the mechanical rule (content of a report → TOLD in the report's world), TOLD. OK.

Hmm, hold on. But then, is anything in the actual ledger besides: clerk, harbourmaster, log, entry things; p1 (clerk reads log); the log is the harbourmaster's; the entry is the log's entry? That seems thin but faithful. Actually, is even "the log is the harbourmaster's" actual? "the harbourmaster's log" in sentence 1 — the narrator's description, not inside a report → actual, GIVEN (it's a presupposed description in the main clause). Yes.

Hmm, and what about the harbourmaster existing? "the harbourmaster's log" presupposes a harbourmaster → GIVEN, actual. Yes.

And the entry: "The rest of the entry" (sentence 5) presupposes an entry → the entry is a real thing in the actual world → GIVEN. And "the entry is the log's entry" filled in.

Hmm, and does the actual ledger assert the entry's existence as CLAIMED or GIVEN? Presupposed → GIVEN.

OK. Now what about the fact that the log contains writing (from "had written")? The attribution is binned. Fine.

Now let me draft all lines.

LINES (ids):

Things (actual ledger):
1. `clerk` | GIVEN | clerk is a person; it answers a press as [not stated] | said | 1
   prolog: kind(clerk, person) :- line(clerk). body(clerk, not_stated) :- line(clerk).
   
   Hmm, "it answers a press as [not stated]" — NOT brackets are for denials. Careful! "NOT. Put NOT in square brackets around exactly what is denied." Using [not stated] might be confused. In T10D's text they wrote "response to a press not stated" — no brackets. I'll write "it answers a press as not stated". Good, avoid brackets.

2. `harbourmaster` | GIVEN | harbourmaster is a person; it answers a press as not stated | said | 1
3. `log` | GIVEN | log is a log; it answers a press as not stated | said | 1
4. `logown` | GIVEN | the log is the harbourmaster's log | said | 1 → prolog: holds(kept_by(log, harbourmaster)) :- line(logown).
5. `p1` | CLAIMED | p1: clerk READS log | said | 1 → prolog: holds(read(clerk, log)) :- line(p1).
   Verb "read" has no shape → not checked. Note in bin? The report carries "the verbs with no shape" — I'll note in the count section? The count section has four items fixed. I could put a note in the bin? Hmm. The bin is for text that the language has no form for. "read" has a form (happening) but no shape. I'll note it in "Readings I chose" or add a note line in the count. Let me add to section 5 a short extra note: "Verbs with no shape in the shape book: read, write(? no), cross, tie up, turn, list, concern." Hmm, section 5's format is fixed: "lines said, lines filled in, lines usual case, sentences that lost something to the bin." I'll keep those four and add a fifth bullet "Verbs with no shape (for the report): ..." — is that violating "print your output in exactly this form"? The five sections are required; extra info... The T10D JSON had "verbs_without_shape". I could put it in the JSON as an extra field (like T10D did with translation_gauge). Hmm, the schema doesn't have it, but T10D (an example) had extra fields. The guide says "Match their shapes" for the three examples. T10D is one of them and has extras. I think adding "translation_gauge" with verbs_without_shape is acceptable and matches an example's shape. But risk: the driver reads required fields; extra fields presumably ignored. T10D shows extras are tolerated. Hmm, but example_A.json is minimal-ish without standing fields... Actually example_A.json's lines lack "standing" and "text" formats vary — it's a loose example.

I'll keep the JSON to the schema fields plus maybe "parked"? No. Keep exactly the schema fields: paragraph, whose, sentences, bin, leftover, whatifs, lines, words_split, readings_chosen. Clean. And put a note about verbs with no shape in section 5 as a sub-line. Hmm, "exactly this form" — I think a small additional note under section 5 is fine and useful. Actually, to be safe, I'll fold "verbs with no shape" into section 5 as an extra bullet labelled clearly. Hmm... The final checks say "The output has all five sections and the closing line." Extra bullets within a section don't break that. OK.

Hmm, but actually — maybe put verbs-without-shape in the bin? No, bin is for text with no form. Verbs with no shape have a form (happening) but aren't checked. I'll add a note in section 5. Fine.

Continue lines.

6. `entry` | GIVEN | entry is a log entry; it answers a press as not stated | said | 5
   Hmm, the entry is introduced in sentence 5 by "the rest of the entry" (presupposition) — its existence is presupposed there. But it's also implied in sentence 2 ("In it"). I'll cite sentence 5. Hmm, or sentence 2 ("In it" = in the log...). I'll cite 5.

Hmm, wait. Is the entry presupposed by sentence 5? "The rest of the entry concerned X" presupposes there is an entry with parts. Yes → GIVEN.

7. `entrylink` | GIVEN? or CLAIMED? | the entry is the log's entry | filled in | 5
   Prolog: holds(kept_in(entry, log))? Hmm, or holds(entry_of(entry, log)). Let me use holds(entry_of(entry, log)) :- line(entrylink). Hmm — is that a location? "entry_of" is a part-whole/identity. OK.
   Standing: the link is my reading of the text's reference; standing GIVEN (it's background). Mark filled in. Hmm, rule: "Every line you added carries 'filled in' or 'usual case'." Yes filled in.
   Hmm, careful with rule 9: "An added line ... may not be the claimed line in other words, may not take the place of the reason the writer actually gives". Fine here.

Log world lines (TOLD in world log_world):
8. `trawler` | TOLD in log_world | trawler is a boat; it answers a press as not stated | said | 2
9. `bar` | TOLD in log_world | bar is a bar; it answers a press as not stated | said | 2
10. `tide` | TOLD in log_world | tide is a tide; it answers a press as not stated | said | 2
11. `turn` | TOLD in log_world | the tide had turned | said | 2 → holds(turned(tide)).
12. `cross` | TOLD in log_world | p1... no wait, p1 is taken. Use `p2` for the crossing: "p2: trawler CROSSES bar [across]" | said | 2 → holds(crossed(trawler, bar)).
    Hmm, numbering: happenings get short names p1, p2. But my other lines use word ids. The example used a, b, c... and p1-style in the definition example. Mixed ids are fine ("Short lower-case letters or words with no spaces"). But careful: "Names that end in an underscore and a number" are bad; p1 is fine.
    
    Let me use ids: h1 (clerk reads log), h2 (trawler crosses bar), h3 (boats tie up)? Or p1, p2, p3. The definition example uses "p1 for a happening". I'll use p1, p2, p3.

Let me re-plan ids systematically:
- Things: clerk, harbourmaster, log, entry, trawler, bar, tide, catch, boats, north_pier, repairs. (ids = names, no spaces: north_pier — hmm, "Names that end in an underscore and a number" are merged; north_pier ends with "pier", fine.)
- Facts: logown, entrylink, turned, crewed, weighed, tiedup, due, and causal claims: cause1.

Let me lay out the full numbered list (the table numbers can be 1,2,3... or short names). The definition says Number: "1, 2, 3, or a short name such as p1 for a happening". I'll use the ids as numbers: things and facts get word ids, happenings p1/p2/p3. Good — matches the id requirement for JSON.

Full line list:

ACTUAL LEDGER:
L1 `clerk` — thing — GIVEN — said — s1: "clerk is a person; it answers a press as not stated"
L2 `harbourmaster` — thing — GIVEN — said — s1: "harbourmaster is a person; it answers a press as not stated"
L3 `log` — thing — GIVEN — said — s1: "log is a log; it answers a press as not stated"
L4 `logown` — fact — GIVEN — said — s1: "the log is the harbourmaster's log"
L5 `p1` — happening — CLAIMED — said — s1: "p1: clerk READS log" (verb "read" has no shape)
L6 `entry` — thing — GIVEN — said — s5: "entry is a log entry; it answers a press as not stated"
L7 `entrylink` — fact — GIVEN — filled in — s5: "the entry is the log's entry; I take 'the entry' of sentence 5 as the entry in the log of sentence 1"

Hmm — "say in the line which part you added" — the whole line is added (filled in). OK.

LOG WORLD (TOLD in world log_world):
L8 `trawler` — thing — TOLD in log_world — said — s2: "trawler is a boat; it answers a press as not stated" (note: the boat of sentence 3)
L9 `bar` — thing — TOLD in log_world — said — s2: "bar is a bar; it answers a press as not stated"
L10 `tide` — thing — TOLD in log_world — said — s2: "tide is a tide; it answers a press as not stated"
L11 `turn` — fact — TOLD in log_world — said — s2: "the tide had turned"
L12 `p2` — happening — TOLD in log_world — said — s2: "p2: trawler CROSSES bar [across]"
L13 `cause1` — BECAUSE — TOLD in log_world — said — s2: "line p2 BECAUSE line turn" (the crossing happened because the tide had turned)
   prolog: claim_because(cause1, crossed(trawler,bar), turned(tide)) :- line(cause1).
   Careful: "Every fact term used in a claim_because ... is spelled exactly as in the holds(...) of the line it points at". So line p2's holds must be holds(crossed(trawler,bar)) and turn's holds(turned(tide)). Good.
L14 `catch` — thing — TOLD in log_world — said — s3: "catch is a catch; it answers a press as not stated"

Hmm — "catch is a catch" is silly. Let me name the thing "catch" and kind "catch"? Or kind "landed catch"? I'll write "catch is a catch" — hmm. Alternative: name the thing "catch" and give kind "catch"... T10D: "letter is a letter". OK, "catch is a catch". Meh but consistent. Hmm, alternatively kind "fish catch"? Guessing. Keep "catch is a catch".

Hmm, one more consideration: could I write kind(catch, catch)? Yes.

L15 `crewed` — fact — TOLD in log_world — filled in — s3: "the trawler had a crew; this is the presupposed content of the binned question 'who had crewed the boat'"
   prolog: holds(had_crew(trawler)) :- line(crewed).
L16 `weighed` — fact — TOLD in log_world — filled in — s3: "the catch had a weight; this is the presupposed content of the binned words 'how much the catch had weighed'"
   prolog: holds(had_weight(catch)) :- line(weighed).
   
 Hmm, should I mark these "said"? I decided filled in with a note. Hmm. Let me reconsider once more... The instruction for source marks: "Mark what the writer wrote as 'said'." The writer wrote "who had crewed the boat and how much the catch had weighed" — the presupposed content is written by the writer. I think "said" is arguably right and "filled in" is the cautious choice. The task says "Where part was said and part was yours, split it into two lines, or mark the whole line 'filled in' and say in the line which part you added." Here nothing is mine — the presupposition is the writer's. But the *form* (a fact) is my rendering. Hmm. Every line is a rendering.

Hmm, I think "said" is right: the content comes from the writer's words; the extraction of a presupposition is standard. But the safer, more self-flagging choice is "filled in". The checker treats filled-in lines specially (tests added lines). If I mark them filled in, the checker may report "added lines alone give the conclusion" etc. If I mark them said, the checker treats them as the writer's commitments. Which is right? The writer does commit to the boat having been crewed. So "said" is substantively right.

Hmm, hmm. Consider: "The log listed who had crewed the boat" — writer commits (presupposes) the boat had a crew. I'll mark "said" and explain in Readings I chose ("Sentence 3: the wh-questions go to the bin; their presupposed content is kept as said facts..."). Hmm, but a strict checker of my work might say the line is derived.

I'll go with "said" for these presupposition facts and explain the derivation in Readings. Hmm... but wait: the content of these facts is inside the log world (TOLD). Is the presupposition asserted by the writer (actual) or by the log? I earlier decided TOLD. But hmm — presuppositions of "the log listed X" project to the actual world: the writer presupposes the boat had a crew regardless of the log's truth. So maybe standing GIVEN (actual)?!

Ugh, this is the crux. Let me think about what's most useful and defensible.

"The log went on to list who had crewed the boat and how much the catch had weighed."
- Asserted (actual): the log listed [these items].
- Presupposed (actual): there were answers — i.e., the boat was crewed, the catch had a weight.

If I put "the trawler had a crew" in the actual ledger as GIVEN, that's a background assumption of the writer's. If I put it in log_world, it's the log's content.

Presupposition projection theory says these project out (they survive under "the log listed..."). So GIVEN in the actual ledger seems linguistically right. But then it's the writer's presupposition rather than the log's claim.

Hmm, but there's a competing consideration: the log-world is "what the log says" and "A told world is looked at alone... nothing in it is claimed about the actual one". If the crew fact is only in log_world, then the actual ledger doesn't have it.

I think the most defensible: put it in the actual ledger as GIVEN (projected presupposition), because it's the writer's own commitment, and note the alternative in Readings. Hmm. But hmm, then the fact "the trawler had a crew" is in the actual ledger while the trawler's thing line is TOLD in log_world! Cross-world reference — bad. The thing trawler is only in the log world... but the presupposition "the boat was crewed" refers to the boat in the actual world too (a real boat).

Hmm! Right: the trawler is a real boat (the log is about real events). The writer refers to it. Actually, the whole passage is a narration about a real dockyard: the clerk, the log, the trawler, the tide — these are real things the writer names. The *claims* about them (crossing the bar, the tide turning) come from the log. So the things could be in the actual ledger (GIVEN) while the claims are TOLD in log_world. That's how T10D... hmm, no: T10D put window and letter in account_world. Because "the account says the window opened" — the window exists in the account's world.

But that's a choice. In T10D the sentence had only the account as an actual thing. Here, "the trawler" is mentioned within the reported content ("the harbourmaster had written that the trawler crossed the bar"), so like T10D's window → TOLD in log_world.

But then, the crew fact... if trawler is in log_world and the crew fact is in the actual ledger as GIVEN, the checker would see holds(had_crew(trawler)) in the actual ledger with kind(trawler, boat) only inside log_world. Messy but workable? The language says "A told world is looked at alone. It does not inherit the actual ledger, and nothing in it is claimed about the actual one."

Hmm. Cleanest: keep the trawler, bar, tide, catch in log_world, and put the presupposed crew/weight facts in log_world too (as TOLD). Then note in Readings that the presupposition could be read as projecting into the actual ledger (as GIVEN), and that I kept it inside the log world because the boat and catch are named only there.

Yes — consistency wins. TOLD in log_world for crew and catch facts. And I'll record the projection question in "Readings I chose". Good.

L17 `repairs` — thing — TOLD in log_world — said — s5: "repairs is a repair job; it answers a press as not stated". Hmm, kind word... "repairs is a repair job"? Let me write "repairs is a set of repair jobs; it answers a press as not stated"? Hmm "a set of repair jobs" is my phrasing. Simpler: "repairs is a repairs" is dumb. 

Maybe I shouldn't make "repairs" a thing at all — just use it inside the fact's description: fact "repairs are due on the north pier" with atoms holds(due(repairs, north_pier)). The "repairs" atom is referenced without a kind line. Is that a violation? Rule 3 requires thing lines for things *in a happening*. Repairs aren't in a happening. So it's allowed to skip. But the check "Every thing has one name, used throughout" is satisfied.

Hmm, but for completeness ("another reader could rebuild"), a thing line helps. I'll add it: `repairs` — thing — TOLD in log_world — filled in? The kind "repair job" is my phrase. Hmm, "repairs is a repairs"... 

Let me avoid: make the fact about the pier: "the north pier is due repairs"? Hmm. Or treat "repairs" as the thing name and kind "repair": "repairs is a repair; it answers a press as not stated" — plural name, singular kind. Eh.

Decision: skip a separate thing line for "repairs" and keep it as the subject of the fact with the description "due on the north pier". Hmm, but then it's a thing without a line...

Alternatively, phrase the fact as: "the north pier is due for repairs" with the pier as the thing → holds(due_for_repairs(north_pier)). Then the only thing is the pier (which gets a thing line), and "repairs" is inside the description as a free name. That's clean! The fact: "[TOLD in world log_world] the north pier is due for repairs" — hmm, that's a slight rephrasing of "repairs due on the north pier" but preserves meaning. Or keep closer: "repairs are due on the north pier" with atoms holds(due_on(repairs, north_pier)) and give repairs a thing line.

I'll go with: thing line for `north pier` and fact "repairs are due on the north pier" with prolog `holds(due_on(repairs, north_pier)) :- line(due).` and add a thing line for repairs to be complete: name "repairs", kind "repair job", not stated, mark said (word from text; kind word is a plain rendering)... hmm the kind word "repair job" is my phrase → filled in? Rule 15... ugh.

OK, pragmatic: thing line for repairs: "[TOLD in world log_world] repairs is a repair job; it answers a press as not stated" — mark said (the word "repairs" and its nature as repair work are the writer's). Fine. Move on!

Hmm, actually, let me reconsider the fact's standing and content. "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier." I decided: bin "The rest of the entry concerned" (partitive + aboutness), keep content TOLD in log_world.

Hmm, but wait: is "the entry concerned repairs" a claim in the actual world (about the entry) that I should keep as a fact? "The entry concerns repairs" is a fact with a free description (aboutness). Facts are "THING plus any plain description". So "the entry concerns repairs due on the north pier" is a fact in the actual ledger (CLAIMED)! And the content is in the description. Hmm! That would preserve more and keep the content as part of a description rather than a separate TOLD claim.

But then the content "repairs are due on the north pier" is embedded in the fact description and not separately asserted. Which is right?

Compare T10D: "The account says opening the window caused the letter to stay dry" → they binned "The account says" and made the content TOLD. They did NOT write a fact "the account says that opening...". Because "says" is an attribution → bin per rule 14/who-believes rule.

Similarly "concerned" is a reporting/aboutness verb → bin per the same rule ("Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world."). So bin the frame, content TOLD in log_world. Good — my plan holds. And I'll note in the bin reason that the framing words are the attribution and the partitive "the rest".

But hmm — "The rest of the entry concerned repairs" isn't exactly a belief attribution. It's aboutness. But it's a reporting relation → same treatment. Also "the rest" (partitive) is a quantity → bin. So the bin entry words: "The rest of the entry concerned" with reason: "'the rest' is a partitive quantity and 'concerned' is an aboutness/reporting verb, both outside the language; the content they frame is kept as TOLD in log_world."

Hmm, but if the framing is binned, how do I justify the content being TOLD in log_world (rather than CLAIMED)? Because the content is what the entry is about, i.e., what the entry says. Note it.

Hmm, alternatively the content "repairs due on the north pier" could be CLAIMED in the actual ledger (the writer asserts that repairs are due on the north pier, as the topic of the entry). Hmm! "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier" — does the writer commit that repairs are due on the north pier? Only as the entry's topic. The writer describes the entry; the entry's content includes that repairs are due. The writer's own commitment is about the entry. So TOLD in log_world. Consistent with sentences 2-3.

Hmm, but wait — sentence 3's "the catch had weighed" and sentence 5's "repairs due" are all log content → TOLD in log_world. Yes. Good.

Hmm, but actually hold on. Is the entry's content the log world? Yes: "log_world: what the log records".

Now sentence 4: count world.
L18 `boats` — thing — TOLD in count_world — said — s4: "boats is a boat; it answers a press as not stated"
L19 `p3` — happening — TOLD in count_world — said — s4: "p3: boats TIE UP; the thing tied to is not stated" — hmm. Let me reconsider and make it a fact to avoid the missing-object problem... 

Hmm. "six boats had tied up before noon" — the event: the boats tied up (moored). Object unstated. Options: (a) happening with unstated thing; (b) fact "the boats had tied up".

Given the definition's happening shape requires THING, and the guidance "Where the text is silent on how a thing answers a press, write 'not stated'" is about response classes, not objects... For a missing object, T10D chose a Fact ("window was opened; opener not named"). By analogy: a Fact ("the boats had tied up"), noting the missing participant.

Hmm, but T10D's case lacked the DOER (the subject slot of the happening shape). Here we lack the THING (object slot). The happening shape "DOER VERB THING" — if THING is absent, can't write the shape → use a Fact. I'll use a Fact: "[TOLD in world count_world] the boats had tied up" with a note "(eventive fact; 'tie up' has no shape and the thing tied to is not named)". And in the bin? No — note in Readings.

Hmm, but "the boats had tied up" as a fact holds(tied_up(boats)). Fine.

Similarly the crossing "the trawler crossed the bar" has a full shape (DOER=trawler, VERB=crosses, THING=bar) → Happening p2. Good.

And "the tide had turned" — no object, no doer really (the tide turns — the tide is the subject but "turn" is intransitive change of state) → Fact "the tide had turned" holds(turned(tide)). Good.

OK so:
L18 `boats` — thing — TOLD in count_world — said — s4
L19 `tiedup` — fact — TOLD in count_world — said — s4: "the boats had tied up" (prolog holds(tied_up(boats)))

Now, what about the count-world framing attribution "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that" → bin.

Also "from her own count" — "her own count" — is that something to record? The clerk counted. Hmm, "from her own count" tells the source is her count — that's the attribution → bin (who knows/believes what). Bin words: "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that" with reason "attribution to the clerk and to her own count; the attribution is sent to the bin and the content is written as TOLD in count_world".

And "six" → bin ("number"), "before noon" → bin ("time").

Hmm, one concern: "six boats had tied up before noon" — if I bin "six" and "before noon", the remaining content "the boats had tied up" is weak. But it's honest.

Alternatively bin the whole content as one entry: "six boats had tied up before noon" with reason "the content is a count and a time, both outside the language" and write no line. Hmm. Which better serves "another reader could rebuild"? Both work (bin preserves the words). But keeping the fact is more informative. However, keeping "the boats had tied up" as TOLD content is arguably adding a claim the text made only with a number and a time. Hmm, it's weaker than stated — weakening is safe-ish (rule 9 is about added lines not becoming the claimed line in other words — here the line IS from the text's words "boats had tied up").

I'll keep the fact and bin "six" and "before noon" separately. 

Now, also the "boats" thing: which boats? Not stated. Fine.

Let me also double check sentence 2's "early" → bin ("early" = when). And "In it," → bin.

Sentence 1's "for the week" → bin.

Sentence 3's "The log went on to list" → bin? Let me think: "went on to list" = the log continued (sequencing) and listed (reporting). Both the continuation and the reporting frame → bin. But hmm, should the listing be a happening p?: "log LISTS contents"? The contents are questions → binned. The listing happening: DOER=log, VERB=lists, THING=contents (the two items, which are binned questions). If the things are binned, the happening has no thing... So bin the whole frame with reason: "reporting frame 'went on to list' (the log's listing is a report frame, and 'went on' is a sequence word) — the items listed are two indirect questions, which are binned too".

Hmm, but then I need bin entries for "who had crewed the boat" and "how much the catch had weighed" as questions. Let me structure the bin for sentence 3 as three entries:
(a) "The log went on to list" — reason: reporting frame ('list' as a report verb) plus the sequence word 'went on'; the language has no form for a report frame or for sequence. The content is kept as TOLD in log_world.
(b) "who had crewed the boat" — reason: indirect question ('who'); questions are outside the language. The presupposed content, that the boat had a crew, is kept as line crewed.
(c) "how much the catch had weighed" — reason: indirect question with a quantity ('how much'); questions and quantities are outside the language. The presupposed content, that the catch had a weight, is kept as line weighed.

Good.

And sentence 2's bin entries:
(a) "In it," — reason: place phrase; where things are is outside the language. The link between the log and the entry is line entrylink.
(b) "the harbourmaster had written that" — reason: the attribution ('had written that') — who wrote/believes what is outside the language; the attribution is sent to the bin and the content is written as TOLD in log_world.
(c) "early" — reason: 'early' says when, and when is outside the language.

Sentence 1's bin:
(a) "for the week" — reason: says which period the log covers, and when is outside the language.

Hmm, and "read through"? "read through" — the verb "read" — it's a happening with no shape in the shape book. That's "not checked", not bin. Keep the happening and note the verb has no shape. Fine.

Sentence 4's bin:
(a) "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that" — reason: attribution to the clerk and to her own count; sent to the bin, content TOLD in count_world.
(b) "six" — reason: a number; numbers are outside the language.
(c) "before noon" — reason: says when; when is outside the language.

Hmm, but (b) "six" is part of "six boats" — the words "six boats had tied up before noon" — I split "six" out. Fine.

Sentence 5's bin:
(a) "The rest of the entry concerned" — reason: "the rest" is a partitive quantity and "concerned" is an aboutness/reporting verb; both outside the language. The content is kept as TOLD in log_world.

Hmm, what about "due"? "repairs due on the north pier" — "due" is part of the kept fact.

Hmm — is "due" a modal ("May, must, should, can, obliged, optional")? "Repairs are due" = repairs are owed/scheduled. Hmm! "due" could be read as "obliged/should" — which is outside the language! Hmm. "repairs due on the north pier" = repairs that are scheduled/needed for the north pier. Is that a modal commitment? "Due" here means "owed, scheduled to be done" — arguably a deontic modal → outside the language!

Hmm. This is a real issue. Readings: (1) "due" as a fact about the repairs being scheduled/needed (a plain description) → keep as a fact. (2) "due" as a modal (repairs should be done) → bin as a modal outside the language.

I need a "Readings I chose" entry for this and mark the line "filled in" if I choose the modal reading... Let me choose the plain descriptive reading: "repairs are due on the north pier" as a fact with the free description "due on the north pier" (i.e., the repairs are the ones owed to the north pier / scheduled for it). And record the alternative reading (modal: the repairs ought to be done) in Readings and, since "outside the language: May, must, should..." — if I take the modal reading the line goes to the bin.

Per the trap: "When a sentence could be literal or figurative: write both readings under 'Readings I chose' and mark what you wrote from it 'filled in'." That's for literal/figurative. For this modal ambiguity, similar handling: write both readings and mark what I wrote "filled in". Hmm. So the `due` line should be marked "filled in"? But its content is the writer's words...

Hmm. Let me think about "due" more concretely: "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier." = the entry's remaining part was about repairs that are due (i.e., scheduled/needed) on the north pier. The "due" is a property of the repairs — a plain description ("sat on the mat" style). Facts are free names. The modal reading ("repairs that should be done") is close in meaning. Honestly the descriptive reading captures it: the repairs are due = they are outstanding/scheduled.

But the language says modals (should, must, obliged) are outside. "Due" is not exactly a modal verb; it's an adjective describing the repairs. And the fact is in the log world anyway (content of a report). I'll keep it as a fact, mark "said" (the words are the writer's) — hmm, but the ambiguity...

Let me handle it this way: mark the `due` line "said" (it's the writer's words as a plain description) and record in "Readings I chose" both readings with the choice. Hmm, the trap says mark filled in when uncertain whether words are literal. This is a different ambiguity (descriptive vs modal). The rule for readings generally: "Readings I chose, each as: the sentence, the readings open to me, the one I took." It doesn't demand filled-in marking except for the literal/figurative trap. So I can mark "said" and record the reading. Hmm, but if I take the modal reading the content would be binned.

Hmm, but there's a risk: if "due" is modal, the whole content "repairs due on the north pier" might be "outside" and should be binned. Let me think about what the writer commits to: that the entry's remaining part is about repairs due on the north pier. The bare noun phrase "repairs due on the north pier" identifies a topic. Its content: there are repairs due on the north pier. I'll keep: fact "repairs are due on the north pier" TOLD in log_world. And in Readings note the modal reading and that under it the "due" would go to the bin as an obligation word, leaving "repairs on the north pier" (a place phrase → bin) — so nearly everything would go; I took the descriptive reading so the content survives.

Hmm, and per rule 9 (added lines) — fine.

Now also consider: is "on the north pier" a place phrase → bin? Earlier I decided place names inside descriptions are kept (example A precedent: "the plant by the door"). Good, so "due on the north pier" stays as a free description. I'll note this in Readings.

Hmm, hold on. But there's the alternative that "repairs due on the north pier" is purely a locative description → the language's "outside" says "Where things are; inside, outside and openings" → bin. Example A kept "by the door" in a name though. The "outside" list seems aimed at spatial facts asserted (like "the lamp is inside the room"), not at identifying descriptions used as names. Since facts have free descriptions, keeping it is fine. Note in Readings. Good.

Now the causal claim line `cause1`: "line p2 BECAUSE line turn". Standing TOLD in log_world, mark said.

Hmm — also should I write the movement as a Result? "the trawler crossed the bar" — the crossing is the movement. The BECAUSE is between the crossing and the tide turning. The definition: "Where cause and effect are a happening and its result, the laws above do the testing." Here the cause is a fact (the tide had turned) not a happening... Hmm. Should "the tide had turned" be a happening (p0: tide TURNS)? Then the cause is a happening and the effect is... a happening (p2)? The BECAUSE is between two happenings. Hmm. The claim_because prolog takes fact terms; I use holds(turned(tide)) and holds(crossed(trawler,bar)).

Alternatively: the effect is a Result: "trawler MOVES across bar, as a result of happening turn"? But "turn" would need to be a happening (kind 4) with a shape. "Turn" has no shape → not checked. Hmm.

I think encoding "the tide had turned" as a Fact is fine (it's a stage in a fact, per rule 13: "When a thing's state changes in the text, put the stage in the fact: the door open in the morning"). Yes! Rule 13 explicitly: state changes go into the fact as a stage. So "the tide had turned" = fact with stage "turned". 

And "the trawler crossed the bar" — is it a fact with a stage or a happening? It's an event with a doer and verb → Happening p2. But then, for consistency with the Result kind... The text says the trawler crossed — a movement. Hmm, the Result kind is "THING MOVES direction ... as a result of happening NAME". If I write p2 as a happening (trawler CROSSES bar), the crossing IS the movement. I could also add a Result line: "trawler MOVES across bar, as a result of happening p2" — redundant.Or: make the movement the Result of the tide turning: "trawler MOVES across bar, as a result of happening p0" where p0: tide TURNS. Hmm, but the text's structure is "the trawler crossed the bar because the tide had turned" — a BECAUSE claim, which the language models as claim_because. I'll keep:
- `turn`: fact "the tide had turned"
- `p2`: happening "p2: trawler CROSS bar [across]"
- `cause1`: "line p2 BECAUSE line turn"

And maybe add a Result line: "trawler MOVES across bar, as a result of happening p2" — nah, redundant; the direction is in the happening line's [across].

Hmm, but is "cross" a movement verb where direction matters? "CROSS bar [across]" is fine.

Hmm, actually — maybe better to model the crossing as a Result of the tide turning, since the language's laws check MOVES. But without a press... The checker would say "cannot tell". Keep it simple with the BECAUSE claim. Fine.

Now what about links (kind 6)? "When one happening depends on an earlier one, name the earlier happening and which of its results is needed." Here nothing like that. Skip.

Now — the "entrylink" line: is it needed? Let me reconsider. Maybe simpler to treat "the entry" and "the log" as the same thing? Hmm. "In it" refers to the log; "the entry" in sentence 5. If I merge, I'd name it "log" and sentence 5 becomes "the rest of the log concerned repairs...". But "the entry" is the written record and "the log" is the book — the writer distinguishes them (sentence 3: "The log went on to list..."; sentence 5: "The rest of the entry..."). Hmm, they might be the same (the log's entry). I'll keep them separate with the filled-in link. That's fine and shows the reading.

Hmm, alternatively the entry = what the harbourmaster wrote ("In it, the harbourmaster had written that..."). Yes — the entry is the written entry. Keep separate + link.

Now, what does "the rest of the entry" presuppose about the entry's parts? It presupposes the entry has parts and that some parts were already mentioned (the writing, the crew/catch list). That's the partitive "the rest" → binned.

Now the standing of `entrylink`: it's my reading → "filled in". Standing: GIVEN (background). Hmm, or CLAIMED? It's not asserted by the sentence; it's background → GIVEN. OK.

Now, the count section:
- lines said: count them.
- lines filled in: count.
- lines usual case: 0.
- sentences that lost something to the bin: sentences 1 (for the week), 2 (In it; attribution; early), 3 (frame, two questions), 4 (attribution, six, before noon), 5 (the rest ... concerned). So all 5 sentences lost something to the bin.

Now the JSON.

"whose": "<your name, the model you are>, under L82". Hmm — what model am I? I'm "a language model" — the prompt says "your name, the model you are". I'm Claude (by this context presumably). The examples say "Astra Ultra, under L72" and "OpenAI Codex, under L66 (example for L82)". So I write e.g. "Claude (Anthropic), under L82". Hmm, which model exactly? I'll write "Claude Sonnet 4.5, made by Anthropic, under L82"? I'm not certain of my version. Safer: "Claude, an AI assistant made by Anthropic, under L82". I'll use: "Claude (Anthropic), under L82". Fine.

"paragraph": "<the text's id>" → "B11".

"sentences": verbatim sentences1-5.

"bin": entries with sentence number, words, reason.

"leftover": strings "Sentence N: <words> — <reason>".

"whatifs": [] (no what-if in the text).

"lines": as designed, with fields: mark, sentence, standing, text, [case, case_kind], prolog_clauses.

For TOLD lines: "case": "log_world" or "count_world", "case_kind": "told".

"words_split": [] — hmm, did I split any word? "the entry" vs "the log"? No. Any word used in two senses? "the bar" — the bar (sandbar) — no other sense. "catch" — the catch (noun) — no. "due" — hmm, descriptive vs modal — that's a reading, not a word split. "tide"? no. "list"? no. "count" — "her own count" (noun: counting) vs "count" as a verb? Only one sense. Hmm, "boats" vs "trawler"? No. I'll put "words_split": [] and note in Readings. Hmm — what about "the entry"? Hmm. Or "bar"? "the bar" could be a sandbar or a counter/bar — no.

Hmm, what about "note(d)"? no.

Actually — maybe "the catch" vs "catch" (verb)? No. OK empty.

Hmm, but maybe "log": "the harbourmaster's log for the week" (the record book) vs "the entry"? Not a word split.

Hmm, what about "tied up"? no.

OK: words_split: [].

Hmm, but wait — the instruction section 3 "Words I split, each with both senses" — if none, write "None." OK.

"readings_chosen": entries per sentence where readings matter:
1. Sentence 3: 'the boat' = the trawler or another boat; chosen: the trawler (same thing), so the trawler's kind is boat and the crew and catch belong to it.
2. Sentence 3: the wh-phrases are indirect questions (binned) or free relative nouns ('whoever had crewed' = the crew members as a listed item); chosen: indirect questions, with their presupposed content kept as facts.
3. Sentence 4: "noted" is a report of what her count showed (TOLD in count_world) or the writer's own assertion backed by her count (CLAIMED in the actual ledger); chosen: TOLD in count_world, since the rule sends attributions to the bin.
4. Sentence 5: "due" is a plain description of the repairs (they are the outstanding/scheduled repairs) or a modal (the repairs ought to be done); chosen: the plain description, so the content is kept as a fact; under the modal reading the word 'due' would go to the bin as an obligation word.
5. Sentence 5: "on the north pier" is a place phrase (outside the language) or the identifying description of the repairs (kept as part of the fact's free description, as in 'the plant by the door'); chosen: identifying description, kept in the fact.
6. Sentence 5: 'the rest of the entry' — 'the entry' is the log's entry (chosen) or the log itself; chosen: a separate thing, linked by the filled-in line entrylink.
7. Sentence 2: 'the tide had turned' is a stage of the tide in a fact (chosen) or a happening of its own (tide TURNS); chosen: a fact with the stage named, per the rule on stages.
8. Throughout: response classes — could be guessed (heavy and standing for the clerk and the harbourmaster); chosen: not stated for every thing, so no class is guessed.
9. Sentence 3: presupposition projection — 'the boat had a crew' could stand in the actual ledger as GIVEN (a presupposition that projects out of 'the log listed') or inside the log's world; chosen: TOLD in log_world, because the boat and the catch are named only inside the log's content.
10. Sentence 1 spelling slips: none found. — Hmm, the task says "Include your readings of any slips of spelling." If none, say none. I'll add a line: "No spelling slips found in the text." Maybe include as part of readings? I'll add: "All sentences: no spelling slips to read." Good.

Also "In it" — the reference of "it" = the log (chosen) or the entry. Add reading.

Now let me write the table. Columns: Number | Standing | Content | Source mark | Sentence.

Order: by sentence.

Sentence 1:
| clerk | GIVEN | clerk is a person; it answers a press as not stated | said | 1 |
| harbourmaster | GIVEN | harbourmaster is a person; it answers a press as not stated | said | 1 |
| log | GIVEN | log is a log; it answers a press as not stated | said | 1 |
| logown | GIVEN | the log is the harbourmaster's log | said | 1 |
| p1 | CLAIMED | p1: clerk READS log | said | 1 |

Sentence 2 (log world):
| trawler | TOLD in world log_world | trawler is a boat; it answers a press as not stated | said | 2 |
| bar | TOLD in world log_world | bar is a bar; it answers a press as not stated | said | 2 |
| tide | TOLD in world log_world | tide is a tide; it answers a press as not stated | said | 2 |
| turn | TOLD in world log_world | the tide had turned | said | 2 |
| p2 | TOLD in world log_world | p2: trawler CROSSES bar [across] | said | 2 |
| cause1 | TOLD in world log_world | line p2 BECAUSE line turn | said | 2 |

Hmm — careful with the NOT-brackets: "[across]" might look like NOT. The definition's happening shape: "NAME: DOER VERB THING [DIRECTION]" — brackets there are a slot marker. NOT is "NOT in square brackets around exactly what is denied" — i.e., "NOT [...]". So "[across]" alone is fine (it's the direction slot). OK.

Sentence 3 (log world):
| catch | TOLD in world log_world | catch is a catch; it answers a press as not stated | said | 3 |
| crewed | TOLD in world log_world | the trawler had a crew; this is the presupposed content of the binned question 'who had crewed the boat' | filled in | 3 |
| weighed | TOLD in world log_world | the catch had a weight; this is the presupposed content of the binned words 'how much the catch had weighed' | filled in | 3 |

Hmm, for `weighed`, maybe phrase as "the catch had weighed" to stay close to the words? "the catch had a weight" is clearer. I'll write "the catch had a weight" and explain. Prolog: holds(had_weight(catch)).

Hmm, should these be "filled in"? I decided earlier maybe "said". Let me settle now: the content is presupposed by the writer's words; but the extraction into a fact is my construction of a line from a binned question. I'll mark "filled in" and say in the line which part I added (that it is the presupposed content). This is the cautious, rule-15-compliant choice (part said — the presupposed words — part mine — the extraction). Actually rule 15 says mark whole line filled in and say which part you added — exactly this. Good: filled in.

Similarly the `entrylink` is filled in.

Sentence 4 (count world):
| boats | TOLD in world count_world | boats is a boat; it answers a press as not stated | said | 4 |
| tiedup | TOLD in world count_world | the boats had tied up | said | 4 |

Hmm, "boats is a boat" — plural name, singular kind. Let me name the thing "boats" and kind "boat": "boats is a boat; it answers a press as not stated". Fine.

Sentence 5:
| entry | GIVEN | entry is a log entry; it answers a press as not stated | said | 5 |
| entrylink | GIVEN | the entry is the log's entry; I take 'the entry' as the entry written in the log of sentence 1 | filled in | 5 |
| north pier | TOLD in world log_world | north pier is a pier; it answers a press as not stated | said | 5 |
| repairs | TOLD in world log_world | repairs is a repair job; it answers a press as not stated | said | 5 |
| due | TOLD in world log_world | repairs are due on the north pier | said | 5 |

Hmm, "repairs is a repair job" — let me phrase "repairs is a repair job" or "repairs is a repair". I'll use "repairs is a repair job". Hmm... Or avoid the thing line and just keep the fact? I'll include it. Actually, hmm: "Give every thing in a happening a thing line" — repairs are in a fact, not a happening. Including an extra thing line is harmless and complete. Keep.

Hmm, wait: should `entry`'s thing line be sentence 5 or sentence 2? It's presupposed by sentence 5's "the entry" and hinted at by sentence 2's "In it"/"had written". I'll cite 5 (where the word appears). But hmm, then the sentence-2 lines don't reference the entry at all. Fine.

Hmm, but the log_world contents belong to the entry/log — the link between the log world and the log: "the log world is what the log records" — the world name says it. Fine.

Now the prolog clauses.

For each line, prolog_clauses with `line(<id>)` as the first body goal. Note: the definition says "Every clause of a line has `line(<id>)` as its first body goal, so the line can be taken out."

Let me write them:

clerk:
"kind(clerk, person) :- line(clerk)."
"body(clerk, not_stated) :- line(clerk)."

harbourmaster:
"kind(harbourmaster, person) :- line(harbourmaster)."
"body(harbourmaster, not_stated) :- line(harbourmaster)."

log:
"kind(log, log) :- line(log)."
"body(log, not_stated) :- line(log)."

logown:
"holds(kept_by(log, harbourmaster)) :- line(logown)."

p1:
"holds(read(clerk, log)) :- line(p1)."

entry:
"kind(entry, log_entry) :- line(entry)."
"body(entry, not_stated) :- line(entry)."

entrylink:
"holds(entry_of(entry, log)) :- line(entrylink)."

trawler:
"kind(trawler, boat) :- line(trawler)."
"body(trawler, not_stated) :- line(trawler)."

bar:
"kind(bar, bar) :- line(bar)."
"body(bar, not_stated) :- line(bar)."

Hmm, "kind(bar, bar)" — hmm, maybe kind(bar, sandbar)? I said keep text words. But "bar is a bar" is silly. Hmm, T10D did "kind(window, window)". So it's precedent. Keep "bar is a bar". Hmm... I could name the thing "bar" and kind "harbour bar"? Guessing. Keep.

tide:
"kind(tide, tide) :- line(tide)."
"body(tide, not_stated) :- line(tide)."

turn:
"holds(turned(tide)) :- line(turn)."

p2:
"holds(crossed(trawler, bar)) :- line(p2)."

cause1:
"claim_because(cause1, crossed(trawler, bar), turned(tide)) :- line(cause1)."

catch:
"kind(catch, catch) :- line(catch)."
"body(catch, not_stated) :- line(catch)."

Hmm — "catch" as an atom is fine in Prolog.

crewed:
"holds(had_crew(trawler)) :- line(crewed)."

weighed:
"holds(had_weight(catch)) :- line(weighed)."

boats:
"kind(boats, boat) :- line(boats)."
"body(boats, not_stated) :- line(boats)."

tiedup:
"holds(tied_up(boats)) :- line(tiedup)."

north_pier:
"kind(north_pier, pier) :- line(north_pier)."
"body(north_pier, not_stated) :- line(north_pier)."

repairs:
"kind(repairs, repair_job) :- line(repairs)."
"body(repairs, not_stated) :- line(repairs)."

due:
"holds(due_on(repairs, north_pier)) :- line(due)."

Check: claim_because terms spelled exactly as holds of pointed lines: crossed(trawler, bar) matches p2's holds(crossed(trawler, bar)) ✓; turned(tide) matches turn's holds(turned(tide)) ✓.

The text of cause1: "line p2 BECAUSE line turn" — and the claim's effect/cause terms — good.

Now the line "text" field format: "[<standing>] <the line in the language's words>". E.g. "[GIVEN] clerk is a person; it answers a press as not stated". For TOLD: "[TOLD in world log_world] ...".

Now — do I need a "line(id)." fact clause for each line? In example_A.pl, there are `line(1). ...` facts at the top, separate from the clauses. In the JSON examples (T10D, P14), prolog_clauses contain only the body clauses with `:- line(id)`. So the driver generates the `line(id).` facts. Good — don't include them.

Now, are there any "General lines" (ALWAYS/USUALLY) here? No. Any exceptions? No. Any tendencies? No. Any links? No. Any what-ifs? No. OK.

Wait — one more consideration on sentence 2's "because": should there also be a SINCE line? "the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned" — purely causal production. BECAUSE only. Good.

Now also: should the BECAUSE claim have a general MAKES rule (the tide turning makes boats cross)? Rule: "Do not also write a rule that makes the cause produce the effect unless the text states such a rule." The text doesn't. Good.

Now section 2 "The bin" as a list with words and reason. Let me write entries:

1. Sentence 1: "for the week" — this says which period the log covers; when is outside the language.
2. Sentence 2: "In it," — a place phrase pointing into the log; where things are is outside the language. The link between the log and its entry is written as line entrylink instead.
3. Sentence 2: "the harbourmaster had written that" — the attribution; who writes or records what is outside the language. The attribution is sent here and its content is written as TOLD in log_world.
4. Sentence 2: "early" — says when the trawler crossed; when is outside the language.
5. Sentence 3: "The log went on to list" — the reporting frame ('list' as a record) and the sequence word 'went on'; a report frame and a sequence have no form in the language. The items listed are kept in log_world.
6. Sentence 3: "who had crewed the boat" — an indirect question; questions are outside the language. Its presupposed content, that the trawler had a crew, is kept as line crewed.
7. Sentence 3: "how much the catch had weighed" — an indirect question carrying a quantity; questions and quantities are outside the language. Its presupposed content, that the catch had a weight, is kept as line weighed.
8. Sentence 4: "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that" — the attribution to the clerk and to her own count; who records or knows what is outside the language. The content is written as TOLD in count_world.
9. Sentence 4: "six" — a number; numbers are outside the language. The boats are kept as one thing named boats.
10. Sentence 4: "before noon" — says when the boats tied up; when is outside the language.
11. Sentence 5: "The rest of the entry concerned" — 'the rest' is a partitive quantity and 'concerned' an aboutness verb; quantities and aboutness have no form in the language. The content it frames is kept as TOLD in log_world.

Also — what about "her own" in sentence 4? "her own count" — possession/ownership of the count. Is there a count thing? "from her own count" is part of the attribution → binned with the frame. Fine, mention in the reason.

Hmm, what about "also" in sentence 4 ("The clerk also noted")? "also" — additive — outside? It's part of the binned frame. Fine.

What about "went on to" — included in entry 5. ✓.

What about "The dockyard clerk" — "dockyard" is part of the name/role. Should "dockyard" be a separate thing (the dockyard)? It's a role modifier ("the dockyard clerk" = the clerk of the dockyard). Hmm. Similar to "the harbourmaster's log" — possessive. Should I add a thing "dockyard" and a fact "the clerk is the dockyard's clerk"? Hmm. It's a name modifier. Example A kept "the plant by the door" as a name. So "the dockyard clerk" → name "clerk", with the modifier as part of the name. But then the name would be "dockyard clerk". Let me name the thing "clerk" and note in Readings that "dockyard" is kept as part of the name ("the dockyard clerk"), like "the plant by the door". Hmm, or should I write the fact "the clerk is a dockyard clerk"? The kind could be "dockyard_clerk"! That handles it: kind(clerk, dockyard_clerk). Then no separate dockyard thing. Hmm, but earlier I said kind "person". 

Let me reconsider: kind(clerk, dockyard_clerk) — faithful to the text's words. And the harbourmaster: kind(harbourmaster, harbourmaster)? Hmm, that's the name=kind pattern. Hmm.

Decision: use kinds that are the text's own nouns: clerk → "dockyard clerk" (atom dockyard_clerk), harbourmaster → "harbourmaster", log → "log", entry → "log entry" (log_entry), trawler → "trawler"? But the trawler's thing line says "trawler is a boat" (from "the boat"). Hmm. Use kind(trawler, trawler) and record the "boat" identification in Readings? Or kind(trawler, boat)?

I'll do: "trawler is a boat" — since the text calls it "the boat" and "the trawler", the kind "boat" is the broader word. Good.

bar → "bar", tide → "tide", catch → "catch", boats → "boat", north pier → "pier", repairs → "repair job"? Hmm, "repairs is a repairs"... Let me make the kind for repairs "repair": "repairs is a repair" hmm plural.

Alternatively name the thing "repairs" and kind "repair_work"? Let me phrase the thing line as "repairs is a repair job" and atom kind(repairs, repair_job). Fine.

So kinds: dockyard_clerk, harbourmaster, log, log_entry, boat (trawler), bar, tide, catch, boat (boats), pier, repair_job.

Hmm, "harbourmaster is a harbourmaster" — T10D precedent ("account is an account"). Fine. But maybe kind(harbourmaster, person) is nicer... I'll use "harbourmaster" as its own kind to stay with text words. Hmm, but then no link to "person". Meh, fine.

Hmm, actually for the clerk: "clerk is a dockyard clerk" — the name is "clerk", kind "dockyard clerk". OK good, that preserves "dockyard".

Let me reconsider: name "clerk" vs name "dockyard clerk"? Names: "Give each thing one plain lower-case name". "dockyard clerk" is two words — allowed? "plain lower-case words" (plural). But atoms need underscores: dockyard_clerk. Hmm, the trap warns about names ending in underscore+number only. Multi-word names with underscores are fine (group_structure in the examples). So I could name the thing "dockyard clerk" with atom dockyard_clerk and kind "clerk"? Hmm.

Simplify: name "clerk", atom clerk, kind "dockyard clerk" → atom dockyard_clerk. Hmm, is a kind with two words OK? kind(X, dockyard_clerk) — fine.

Hmm, but the checker "checks the kind wherever another line speaks about that kind" — nothing speaks about dockyard_clerk. Fine.

OK, final kinds:
- clerk: dockyard_clerk
- harbourmaster: harbourmaster
- log: log
- entry: log_entry
- trawler: boat
- bar: bar
- tide: tide
- catch: catch
- boats: boat
- north_pier: pier
- repairs: repair_job

Hmm, trawler and boats both kind "boat" — fine.

Now let me double check standing assignments once more:
- Actual ledger things (clerk, harbourmaster, log, entry) — GIVEN. But hold on: is the clerk's existence GIVEN or CLAIMED? "The dockyard clerk read through the log" — the sentence asserts the reading. The clerk's existence is presupposed → GIVEN. Yes.

Hmm, but many would say "the clerk read X" asserts the existence of the clerk (entailment). Rule 4: main clause is CLAIMED; descriptions are GIVEN. The subject's existence is part of the main clause's assertion arguably. Hmm. But T10D's precedent: the account's existence was GIVEN (it was the subject of "The account says"). Here the subject performs the asserted action. Hmm.

Consider: "CLAIMED is what the sentence asserts. GIVEN is what it takes for granted along the way." The clerk's existence: does the sentence assert it or take it for granted? "The dockyard clerk read through the log" — it asserts that the reading happened, by a clerk who is presupposed to exist and be identified as "the dockyard clerk". I'd say the existence is asserted (entailed) but the identification is given... Practically, the reading happening p1 asserts the clerk exists. So the clerk thing line could be CLAIMED or GIVEN.

Hmm. For the log: "the harbourmaster's log for the week" — presupposed (definite description in an object position). Definitely GIVEN. The harbourmaster: presupposed by the possessive → GIVEN. The clerk: the subject of the main assertion.

I think marking the clerk's thing line CLAIMED is defensible (the sentence asserts there is a dockyard clerk who read). But rule 4's grammar clue: "the main clause is CLAIMED" — the main clause is "The dockyard clerk read through the log" — so what the main clause asserts (including the clerk's being there) is CLAIMED. Hmm, but the thing line records existence, which is asserted via the happening.

Hmm, in T10D, the sentence "The account says X" — the main clause's assertion is the account's saying, and the account's existence is GIVEN (they chose GIVEN). Their reason: "The account's existence is GIVEN". Hmm — for a subject of a speech verb, the existence is presupposed (factive-ish? no, "the account says" presupposes the account exists — definite description). So they treated the definite-description subject's existence as GIVEN.

By the same logic, "The dockyard clerk read..." — the definite description "the dockyard clerk" presupposes a clerk exists → GIVEN. I'll mark the clerk GIVEN. Consistent with T10D. And the happening p1 is CLAIMED.

Hmm, but the happening p1 asserts the clerk does something — if the clerk is only GIVEN, fine (GIVEN things can be doers).

OK, all four actual things GIVEN.

Now what about things in told worlds — TOLD (per T10D). ✓.

Let me reconsider `entrylink` standing GIVEN — it's a presupposition-ish link (my reading). Fine.

And the TOLD facts' standing: TOLD in log_world / count_world. ✓

Now, one more check on the task: "Standing. Mark what the sentence asserts as CLAIMED, what it takes for granted as GIVEN, what it only supposes as SUPPOSED in a named case, and what a story, report, note, letter, speech or dream says as TOLD in a named world of its own." ✓.

Now, "the harbourmaster's log" being a *log* — is the log a "report/note" whose content is TOLD? Yes — "The log went on to list", "the harbourmaster had written" → a written record → TOLD world named log_world. ✓

Should the world be named after the log: "log_world"? Or "harbourmaster's writing"? Let me name it "log_world" and describe "what the log records (the harbourmaster's entry)". Hmm, careful: the count_world content is the clerk's, not in the log. Right.

Hmm — but the clerk "noted" the boats — where did she note it? Not stated (maybe in the log margin). Not needed.

Now the JSON "case" field name for worlds: the schema says `"case": "<name>", "case_kind": "told" | "supposed"`. So case: "log_world", case_kind: "told". ✓

Now let me write section 3 "Words I split": none. But hmm — should "the entry"/"the log" be listed? That's two words one thing-ish. Not a split. I'll write "None." and maybe add a note? Keep "None."

Hmm, wait. Is there a word used in two senses? "the bar" — could be read as the sandbar at the harbour mouth (nautical) or a bar/counter. Two senses of "bar"! The text: "the trawler crossed the bar early" — nautical: the bar at a harbour entrance. Alternative sense: a barrier/counter. Hmm, that's a reading rather than a word used in two senses within the text. "Words I split" is for "When the text uses one word in two senses, give each sense its own name and record the split." Within this text, no word is used twice in different senses. So: None. But I'll record the "bar" reading in Readings I chose (sentence 2: 'the bar' = the sandbar at the harbour mouth (chosen) or a bar/counter). Hmm, is that necessary? It shows care. I'll include it briefly.

Also "catch" — noun (the catch) vs verb (to catch) — used once as a noun. "count" — "her own count" noun. "note(d)" — verb. "list" — verb. "entry" — a log entry (vs "entry" as entrance!). Ooh — "entry" could mean "entrance"! But in context "the rest of the entry" = the log entry. Reading: chosen log entry. Include in Readings (sentence 5). Good catch.

"turned" — the tide turned (changed direction/state). Fine.

"crewed" — verb. "weighed" — verb. "tied up" — verb. "due" — adjective vs modal — recorded. "repairs" — noun vs verb ("repairs due" noun). Fine.

"read through" — "through" — fine.

Now — the "Readings I chose" entries need "the sentence, the readings open to me, the one I took".

Let me draft:

1. Sentence 1: readings: "the harbourmaster's log for the week" names one thing (the log) with 'for the week' as a period label; or 'the log for the week' is one of several weekly logs. Taken: one thing named log, with 'for the week' sent to the bin as a period.

Hmm, is that needed? It explains the bin. OK include.

2. Sentence 2: readings of 'the bar': the sandbar at the harbour mouth (nautical) or a bar or counter. Taken: the sandbar; named bar.

3. Sentence 2: readings of 'the tide had turned': a stage of the tide written into a fact, or a happening of its own (tide TURNS) to serve as the cause of a result. Taken: a fact with the stage named (turn), as the rule on stages directs.

4. Sentence 2: readings of 'In it': points at the log (chosen) or at the week's entry. Taken: the log; the words are a place phrase and go to the bin.

5. Sentence 3: readings of 'the boat': the trawler of sentence 2 or a second boat. Taken: the trawler; one name is used and the trawler's kind line reads 'trawler is a boat'.

6. Sentence 3: readings of 'who had crewed the boat' and 'how much the catch had weighed': indirect questions whose answers are outside the language (taken), or noun phrases meaning 'the crew of the boat' and 'the weight of the catch' as items listed. Taken: indirect questions to the bin, with their presupposed content kept as filled-in facts crewed and weighed.

7. Sentence 3: the presupposed crew and weight: the presupposition projects into the actual ledger as GIVEN, or stays inside the log's content. Taken: TOLD in log_world, because the boat and the catch are named only inside the log's content.

8. Sentence 4: readings of 'noted': the clerk recorded it in a record of her own count (taken: TOLD in count_world), or the writer asserts it on the strength of her count (CLAIMED in the actual ledger). Taken: TOLD in count_world, since the attribution goes to the bin.

9. Sentence 4: 'six' and 'before noon' are a number and a time (taken: to the bin), or part of the fact's free description. Taken: to the bin, since numbers and times are outside the language; the fact keeps 'the boats had tied up'.

Hmm — "or part of the fact's free description" — could I have written "six boats tied up before noon" as one free fact description? Hmm, facts' descriptions are free names ("sat on the mat") — so one could write "the boats tied up before noon" as a fact and "six boats" as the name! Hmm! That's a real alternative: facts allow free descriptions, so a time could be inside a description ("the door open in the morning" — rule 13 explicitly uses "the door open in the morning" as a staged fact!). Hmm!! Rule 13: "When a thing's state changes in the text, put the stage in the fact: the door open in the morning, the door open in the evening." So times CAN appear in facts as stage markers!

Hmm. But "Outside the language: When, beyond the order of a chain and the stage named in a fact." So times are outside except as a stage named in a fact. "before noon" — is that a stage? "six boats had tied up before noon" — the time qualifies when the event happened, not a stage of a thing. Hmm. Rule 13's example is about a thing's state at a time ("the door open in the morning"). Here it's an event time → outside → bin. Hmm, but one could write the fact "the boats had tied up before noon" as one staged fact... 

Hmm. The distinction: rule 13 concerns "when a thing's state changes in the text, put the stage in the fact". The boats tying up IS a state change (from not tied up to tied up) with a time ("before noon")! So arguably the fact should be: "the boats tied up before noon" (the stage + time named in the fact)! Hmm!

Hmm. That's a plausible reading of rule 13. But "before noon" is a deadline/period, and "six" is a number (definitely outside). Hmm.

Let me think about which serves better. Rule 13's purpose: record stages with their times when the text names them (so "the door open in the morning" vs "the door open in the evening" are distinguishable). Here "the boats had tied up before noon" is an event with a time bound. Since there's only one such fact and no competing stage, including "before noon" adds precision without cost.

But the "Outside the language" list says "When, beyond the order of a chain and the stage named in a fact" — so a time named in a fact IS allowed. Hmm! So "the boats had tied up before noon" as a fact is within the language.

Hmm, hmm. But then "before noon" is not binned. Which do I choose? Consider the checker: two facts are compared for sameness. "the boats tied up before noon" vs "the boats tied up" — different facts.

I think including the time in the fact is more faithful to rule 13's spirit ("put the stage in the fact"), and it keeps information. But the phrase "before noon" isn't exactly a stage name ("in the morning" is). Ugh.

Let me decide: keep the time in the fact as part of the staged fact, per rule 13 ("put the stage in the fact"), and bin only "six" (the number). Hmm... but then the line "the boats had tied up before noon" — is the time part said? Yes, from the text.

Hmm, but hold on — "When, beyond the order of a chain and the stage named in a fact" goes to the bin. "before noon" is a time of the happening, not a stage of a thing's state. Hmm. "the boats had tied up before noon" — the fact is "the boats are tied up" with the stage/time "before noon". Rule 13's example "the door open in the morning" is exactly this shape: a state ("the door open") + a time ("in the morning"). So "the boats tied up before noon" = state ("the boats tied up") + time ("before noon"). That fits rule 13's shape exactly!

OK, decision: include "before noon" in the fact: "[TOLD in world count_world] the boats had tied up before noon" and do NOT bin "before noon"; instead note in Readings that I kept the time as the stage named in the fact under rule 13, while a stricter reading would bin it as a time. Hmm, but the "outside the language" says when goes to the bin... except as a stage named in a fact. Rule 13 is the exception. I'll go with keeping it and explain. Hmm.

Hmm, hmm. Risk assessment: a checker of my translation might say "before noon is a time → should be binned". Or might say "rule 13 says put the stage in the fact". I think citing rule 13 explicitly in the reading makes it defensible either way.

Hmm, but "six"? Rule 13 doesn't cover numbers. Numbers → bin. So bin "six". Hmm, but then "the boats had tied up before noon" loses "six" — a weakening but fine.

Hmm, wait. But could "six boats" be kept as the thing name "six boats"? "Some, most, few, and numbers" are outside the language. So no. Bin "six".

Similarly, for sentence 1 "for the week" — a period of the log ("the log for the week") — is that a stage in a fact ("the log for the week")? Hmm! By the same rule-13 logic, I could write the fact "the log is the log for the week"? Hmm, that's a name, not a stage. Example A kept "the plant by the door" as a name. So "the harbourmaster's log for the week" could just be the thing's name/description. Hmm! Then "for the week" isn't binned...

Ugh, I keep flip-flopping. Let me set a consistent policy:

Policy: Locative, temporal and possessive modifiers that identify a thing are kept as part of the thing's name/description (per example A's "the plant by the door"). Times and numbers that qualify an event or a count are binned, except where rule 13 puts a stage's time in a fact.

Under this policy:
- "for the week" identifies which log → kept as part of the log's description? Hmm, "the log for the week" — the log covering the week. Hmm. Or it's a time. Hmm.

Alternatively: bin "for the week" (a period) and note it.

Hmm. Simpler consistent policy: times and numbers go to the bin; identifying place-words stay in names. Then:
- "for the week" (a period) → bin.
- "before noon" (a time) → bin. But rule 13... rule 13 is about stages: "When a thing's state changes in the text, put the stage in the fact: the door open in the morning, the door open in the evening." The point of that rule is to distinguish two stages of the same thing at different times. Here there's one event with a deadline. Applying rule 13 would give "the boats tied up before noon" which is fine but not needed for distinguishing.

Hmm, but "the stage named in a fact" is explicitly an exception to "when goes to the bin". 

Let me look at the exact wording again: "Outside the language: How much, how fast, how hard. Where things are; inside, outside and openings. When, beyond the order of a chain and the stage named in a fact. Who believes, knows or wants what. ..."

So "when" is outside the language, except (a) the order of a chain, and (b) the stage named in a fact. Rule 13 tells us to put a stage in the fact when a thing's state changes. The boats tying up IS a state change of the boats (they become tied up). And "before noon" is the time named with it. So "the boats tied up before noon" is "the stage named in a fact" — allowed!

Hmm, but is "before noon" a *stage* or a *time*? "the door open in the morning" — "in the morning" is a time, and the stage is "open". Hmm! Actually re-reading: "put the stage in the fact: the door open in the morning, the door open in the evening" — the *stage* is "open"; the fact includes the time to distinguish. So the fact = thing + stage + time. And "the stage named in a fact" in the outside-list refers to this whole construction being allowed.

So the construction "the boats tied up before noon" is exactly a fact with a stage ("tied up") and its time ("before noon"). Since the boats' state changes (they tie up), rule 13 applies: put the stage in the fact, with the time. So keep "before noon" in the fact!

Hmm OK. But then "six" — a number → bin (numbers are outside with no exception).

And "for the week" in sentence 1: the log's state doesn't change; it identifies the log. It's a time → outside → bin. Hmm, or part of the name ("the log for the week" like "the plant by the door"). Hmm.

I'll bin "for the week" as a period (time) — cleaner, and I'll note the alternative in Readings. Actually hmm, if I keep "before noon" but bin "for the week", is that inconsistent? Justification: rule 13 covers the stage of a changing thing ("the boats tied up before noon" is a staged fact), while "the log for the week" is a bare time label on a thing's name, which the outside list sends to the bin... but example A kept "by the door"... that's a place, and places in names are kept.

Hmm! Places in names kept ("the plant by the door"), and my north pier fact keeps "on the north pier". But times in names → bin? Hmm, "the door open in the morning" keeps the time...

OK here's a cleaner policy statement I can defend in Readings:
- A word that is part of how a thing is named or identified stays in the name/description (example A's "the plant by the door"; "the north pier").
- A time named together with a stage of a thing stays in the staged fact (rule 13: "the boats tied up before noon").
- A time or number that only says when or how many goes to the bin ("for the week", "early", "six").

Hmm, but "for the week" identifies the log ("the log for the week")... by policy 1 it would stay! Ugh.

Let me just decide: bin "for the week" and note in Readings that it could have been kept as part of the log's name ("the log for the week"), and that I binned it because it says which period, which is a time. And keep "before noon" in the staged fact per rule 13. And note the tension? Hmm, that's a bit inconsistent-looking but each has a stated reason.

Alternatively bin "before noon" too and note the rule-13 alternative. Hmm.

Which is more likely what the graders want? Hmm. The instruction in39: "Run the final checks... Every sentence of the text appears in the ledger, in the bin, or in both." Both approaches satisfy.

I think the cleanest defensible treatment: numbers and pure time labels → bin. The staged-fact rule (13) is about state changes where the time distinguishes stages — with only one stage and one time here, and the time being a bound ("before noon") rather than a stage label, binning is defensible.

But the counter: "the door open in the morning" has one stage and one time and it's rule 13's own example! It's given to show how to record a state change with its time. "The boats tied up before noon" is structurally identical: thing (boats) + state change (tied up) + time (before noon).

Ugh. OK, rule 13's example is literally structurally identical. I'll follow rule 13 and keep "before noon" in the fact. That's a rule with an explicit example. And "for the week" — the log doesn't change state here; it's a label. Bin it. I'll state the distinction in Readings. Good.

Hmm, but hmm: "six boats had tied up before noon" — the fact's subject would be "the boats" (without "six"). Then the staged fact is "the boats tied up before noon". Fine.

OK. And what about "early" in sentence 2 ("crossed the bar early")? "early" is a time-ish manner word (when). The crossing is a happening, not a staged fact. Rule 13 applies to a thing's state change in a fact. "early" qualifies the happening. Hmm — could the crossing be a staged fact ("the trawler across the bar early")? No. So "early" → bin. ✓ Consistent enough.

Hmm, alternatively "early" could be a stage label for the crossing... no. Bin.

Now, what about "for the week"? Let me reconsider one final time — "the harbourmaster's log for the week" — I'll bin it with reason "says which period the log covers; when is outside the language" and note the alternative in Readings. OK.

Now, let me reconsider whether to make "the boats had tied up before noon" a happening (p3: boats TIE UP) plus a staged fact... Since I'm using rule 13 (staged fact), the fact form is right: "the boats had tied up before noon". But hmm, "tied up" is an event (a happening) rather than a state... Rule 13 is about "when a thing's state changes in the text, put the stage in the fact". The boats' state changes to "tied up". So the fact is "the boats [are] tied up", and the text says the change happened before noon. Writing "the boats had tied up before noon" as a fact captures it. But then the *event* of tying up is lost (no happening line, no doer/verb). Hmm! The task says "Happenings. Write who did what to what, and which way, using the text's own verb."

Hmm! "six boats had tied up" is a happening: who=boats, did what=tied up, to what=not stated. Per the task's happening rule, I should write it as a happening. But then the time... happenings don't take times (when is outside). Hmm.

Options:
(a) Happening p3: boats TIE UP (thing not stated) + bin "six", "before noon".
(b) Fact "the boats had tied up before noon" (staged fact) + bin "six".

Hmm. The task's happening rule says write happenings as happenings. "tied up" is the text's own verb. I lean (a): happening p3: boats TIE UP, with the object not stated. And bin "six" and "before noon"? But rule 13 would suggest including the time...

Argh. Hmm, but note: rule 13 is about *facts* ("put the stage in the fact"), and the happening form is for events. The text's sentence asserts an event. Hmm.

Let me look at the Result kind again: "Result | THING MOVES direction, STAYS, TOUCHES thing, or BECOMES [description], as a result of happening NAME". So a state change like "the boats became tied up" would be a Result of a happening "boats TIE UP". Hmm! That's the language's way: happening p3: boats TIE UP; result r1: boats BECOMES [tied up], as a result of happening p3. That's over-engineering.

I'll go with the Happening (a) since the task explicitly says to write happenings, and it keeps the text's verb. And for the time "before noon": hmm.

Compromise: Happening p3: boats TIE UP; the thing tied to is not stated. And a fact? Hmm.

Hmm, let me reconsider (b) once more. Rule 13: "When a thing's state changes in the text, put the stage in the fact: the door open in the morning, the door open in the evening." This is listed under "Rules for the translator" — a directive about how to record a state change: as a fact with a stage. "The boats tied up before noon" is a state change (to tied up). So the directive says record it as a fact with the stage: "the boats tied up before noon".

Hmm, but "the door open in the morning" — the door's state "open". Is "the boats tied up" a state? Yes ("tied up" = moored).

But the sentence's verb is "had tied up" (a verb of doing) not "were tied up" (a state). "six boats had tied up before noon" = the event of tying up happened before noon. That's a happening, not a state.

Hmm! But the rule says "when a thing's state changes in the text" — the boats' state changes as a result of their tying up. Hmm.

Decision: I'll record BOTH? No — that duplicates.

Final: Happening p3: boats TIE UP (the text's own verb, per the task's happening rule), with the object not stated. Then "before noon" → bin (a time on a happening; rule 13's staged fact is not used because the sentence reports an event, not a standing state). And note this choice in Readings (with the alternative staged fact "the boats tied up before noon" under rule 13).

Hmm, hmm. But then I lose the time info entirely to the bin... but the bin keeps the words. Fine.

Hmm, but hold on. Let me reconsider: is it better to keep the time in the fact to preserve info? The bin preserves the words anyway. The ledger's job is the commitments in the language's form. Times on events are outside. OK: bin "before noon". And also bin "early". Consistent: all pure event-times → bin. And "for the week" → bin. And numbers → bin. This is a consistent, clean policy: "when" is outside the language except for the order of a chain and stages in facts; since I record the tying up as a happening (an event) and there's no competing stage to distinguish, the time goes to the bin.

Hmm, but then rule 13 is unused... which is fine (it applies when a state change is recorded as a fact).

Hmm, but "the tide had turned" IS a state change recorded as a fact (rule 13!). "the tide had turned" = the tide's state is "turned", with the stage named. Good — rule 13 is used there. And no time is named for it ("had turned" is relative past, no clock time). Fine.

OK, so the final policy:
- "for the week" (s1) → bin (time/period).
- "In it," (s2) → bin (place).
- attribution (s2) → bin.
- "early" (s2) → bin (when).
- frame + 2 questions (s3) → bin.
- attribution (s4) → bin.
- "six" (s4) → bin (number).
- "before noon" (s4) → bin (when).
- "the rest of the entry concerned" (s5) → bin (partitive + aboutness).

Hmm, and now I should double check "before noon" vs rule 13 in Readings — I'll note: "Sentence 4: 'before noon' could be kept in a staged fact under rule 13 ('the boats tied up before noon') or sent to the bin as a time; taken: the bin, because the sentence reports an event (a happening) rather than a standing state, and the rule's exception covers the stage named in a fact."

Hmm, that's a reasonable articulation. But hmm, it says "the stage named in a fact" is allowed... and my fact-less approach... OK.

Hmm, actually, hmm. Let me reconsider ONE more time whether "six boats had tied up" should be a happening or a fact, because it decides this.

The task's rule: "Happenings. Write who did what to what, and which way, using the text's own verb. Keep the push, the movement and the link between them". This is about physical happenings with pushes. "Six boats had tied up" is a happening in a loose sense (an event) but not a press/movement. The language's Happening kind is "NAME: DOER VERB THING [DIRECTION]" checked "through the verb's shape" — the shapes are press, release, hold, press then release. "tie up" has no shape → "not checked". So a happening line is writable but unchecked.

Fact kind: "THING plus any plain description" — "had tied up before noon" is a plain description. Checked for clashes and what follows.

Either works. The happening keeps the doer/verb structure. I'll use the happening (the task says to write happenings as happenings, and this is a clear event with a doer).

Alright. But then hmm, "before noon" in the bin. Fine. Let me be consistent: "early" and "before noon" and "for the week" all binned as times. 

Now — the trawler crossing: happening p2: trawler CROSSES bar [across]. Note "crossed the bar early" — "early" binned. ✓

Let me also double-check: should "the trawler crossed the bar" have a Result line (trawler MOVES across bar as a result of p2)? Nah.

Now, section 5 counts:
Lines said: let me count.
1. clerk (said)
2. harbourmaster (said)
3. log (said)
4. logown (said)
5. p1 (said)
6. entry (said)
7. entrylink (filled in)
8. trawler (said)
9. bar (said)
10. tide (said)
11. turn (said)
12. p2 (said)
13. cause1 (said)
14. catch (said)
15. crewed (filled in)
16. weighed (filled in)
17. boats (said)
18. p3 (said)
19. north pier (said)
20. repairs (said)
21. due (said)

Total 21 lines. Said: 21 - 3 filled in = 18. Filled in: 3 (entrylink, crewed, weighed). Usual case: 0.

Sentences that lost something to the bin: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 → all five.

Bin entries: 11 (listed above).

Now the table's "Sentence" column: the sentence number each line came from.

Let me finalize the standing for `p3` (boats tie up): TOLD in count_world. ✓ And `boats` thing: TOLD in count_world ✓.

Wait — one issue: sentence 4's content world. Should it be a separate world "count_world" or folded into log_world? The clerk "noted" it — from her own count — a different source. Separate world is right ("that person's world"). Name: "count_world" (what the clerk's count shows). Hmm, or "clerk_world"? The rule: "write the content as TOLD in that person's world" — the clerk's world. Let me name it "count_world" and describe "what the clerk's own count showed". Hmm, the rule says "that person's world" — maybe "clerk_world" is closer. Hmm. "The clerk also noted, from her own count" — the source is her count. I'll name it "count_world" (what the clerk's own count records). Hmm, to be safest with "that person's world", name it "clerk_world"? Hmm, but the content is from her count...

I'll name it "count_world" and in the name description say "what the clerk's own count records". Hmm. Or "clerk_count_world"? Let me use "count_world". Fine.

Hmm, actually the rule says TOLD "in that person's world" — for the harbourmaster's writing, I named it "log_world" rather than "harbourmaster_world". Consistency: name worlds after the source document/record: "log_world" (the log) and "count_world" (the clerk's count). That's coherent: each named world is what one record says. Good. I'll note in Readings that log_world = what the log records (the harbourmaster's entry) and count_world = what the clerk's own count records.

Now, the JSON names field? The schema doesn't have "names". T10D had it. I'll skip it (schema-compliant) — or include? The schema lists fields; "names" is not there. Skip. But then the mapping of atom names to prose names is in the lines' text. Fine.

Now, "leftover": one string per bin entry: 'Sentence N: <words> — <reason>'. ✓Now, "whatifs": []. Should I include the text's implicit what-if? No what-if in the text. ✓

Let me now also double check the "Readings I chose" content and make sure I mention spelling slips: "no spelling slips found".

One more consideration — sentence 2: "the harbourmaster had written that the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned" — the past perfect "had written" and "had turned" — sequence of events (order of a chain is allowed but not required). Not needed.

Also: is there a BECAUSE vs SINCE issue? "because the tide had turned" — production claim → BECAUSE. ✓

Also, is there anything about "the log went on to list" implying sequence (the entry's parts in order)? "went on" = continued → sequence. The order of a chain is allowed in the language but here it's the order of the entry's parts. Bin it (as part of the frame entry). ✓

Let me now also handle: does anything require a "Link" line (kind 6)? "When one happening depends on an earlier one, name the earlier happening and which of its results is needed." p3 (boats tie up) doesn't depend on another happening here. p2's cause is a fact, not a happening — so no link. Hmm, but should "the tide had turned" be a happening so that a link could be written? The BECAUSE line covers the dependency claim. OK.

Hmm — but hold on. Let me reconsider making the tide turning a happening `p0: tide TURNS` and then the crossing a Result: "trawler MOVES across bar, as a result of happening p0"? That would encode the causal claim structurally. But the text's claim is exactly a BECAUSE claim, and rule 9 warns against adding lines that duplicate the claim. The BECAUSE line is the claim. Keep it simple: fact + happening + BECAUSE.

Hmm, but "Where cause and effect are a happening and its result, the laws above do the testing" — with my encoding, cause=fact, effect=happening, so the checker tests via claim_because machinery (sets aside the line stating E, etc.). Fine.

Now, write the output.

Format for the table: Markdown table with columns Number | Standing | Content | Source mark | Sentence.

Let me write the content strings carefully, using the language's forms.

Line contents:

clerk: "clerk is a dockyard clerk; it answers a press as not stated"
harbourmaster: "harbourmaster is a harbourmaster; it answers a press as not stated"
Hmm, "harbourmaster is a harbourmaster" is silly. Let me use kind "person" for both after all? Hmm. Or "harbourmaster is a dockyard officer"? Guessing.

T10D precedent allows "X is a X". I'll do "harbourmaster is a harbourmaster" hmm...

Alternative: "harbourmaster is a person" and "clerk is a person", with "dockyard" lost... but I could name the clerk "dockyard clerk"! Name "dockyard clerk" (atom dockyard_clerk), kind "person"? Hmm, then atom and kind both fine.

Hmm: name "clerk" (atom clerk), kind "person"; and record "dockyard" where? As part of the name? Let me name the thing "dockyard clerk" — that's a plain lower-case name ("dockyard clerk"), atom dockyard_clerk. Hmm, but then in prose I'd write "the dockyard clerk" everywhere... and it's a name with two words. The examples use single words mostly (group_structure is two words though). Fine.

Hmm, simpler: keep name "clerk", kind "person", and note that "dockyard" is part of how the text names her (kept in the bin? no...). Hmm, "dockyard" would be silently dropped — not allowed!

Options to avoid dropping "dockyard": (i) kind(clerk, dockyard_clerk); (ii) name the thing "dockyard clerk". I'll go (i): "clerk is a dockyard clerk; it answers a press as not stated" — no info dropped, and the kind is the text's own phrase. Similarly "harbourmaster is a harbourmaster" — hmm, that's just the name as kind. Alternatively kind(harbourmaster, person)? But then "harbourmaster" as a role is in the name. The name IS "harbourmaster" so nothing is dropped. "harbourmaster is a person" — the word "person" is mine (filled-in guess of the response class context)... 

Hmm, what did T10D do? "account is an account" — name=kind. So the convention: kind can equal the name. I'll write "harbourmaster is a harbourmaster" — ugly. Hmm, how about kind(harbourmaster, harbour_master)? no.

Let me write: "harbourmaster is a harbour official" — no, guessing.

OK let me use "person" for the harbourmaster and "dockyard clerk" for the clerk (to keep "dockyard"). Hmm, inconsistent kinds for two persons.

Alternative: "clerk is a dockyard clerk" and "harbourmaster is a harbourmaster" — both keep all text words; kinds are the text's own nouns. Consistent policy: "the kind is the text's own noun for the thing". That's consistent! clerk → "dockyard clerk" (the text's full noun phrase), harbourmaster → "harbourmaster", log → "log", entry → "log entry" (the text says "the entry"; the context says it's a log entry — hmm, "log entry" adds "log". The text says "the entry" in sentence 5 and the log context. Hmm, "entry is an entry"?? Ugh.

Hmm, let me simplify by using kind = "entry" for entry: "entry is an entry". Hmm hmm. T10D did exactly this ("window is a window", "letter is a letter"). OK, so "entry is an entry", "bar is a bar", "tide is a tide", "catch is a catch", "log is a log" — all consistent with T10D's convention. And "clerk is a dockyard clerk"? Hmm, inconsistent with "X is a X".

New plan, fully consistent with T10D: kind = the thing's own noun; and where the text gives a longer phrase, keep the longer phrase as the kind:
- clerk → "dockyard clerk" (text phrase)
- harbourmaster → "harbourmaster"
- log → "log"
- entry → "entry"
- trawler → "boat" (text's other word for it: "the boat") — hmm, this deviates ("trawler is a boat"). But it's informative and the text's word. Keep "trawler is a boat" and note in readings. Or "trawler is a trawler" and note the boat reading? Hmm. Since I'm merging "boat" into "trawler", saying "trawler is a boat" keeps both text words visible. Good: keeps info (no silent drop of "the boat"). But then the thing line mixes my merge... I'll mark the trawler line "said"? The words "trawler" and "boat" are both the writer's. Hmm, the merge is a reading → per rule 15, mark filled in and say which part I added.

Hmm! OK: mark `trawler` line "filled in" with content "trawler is a boat; it answers a press as not stated — I take 'the boat' of sentence 3 as this trawler". Hmm, but that's a long content. The rule says "say in the line which part you added" — OK.

Hmm, but then things like "catch" relate to the trawler... fine.

Hmm, alternatively keep "boat" as a separate thing and add the identity as a filled-in fact. Hmm. I said earlier that violates one-name-one-thing.

Hmm, hmm. Let me think about which is less bad. "One name, one thing" — if boat and trawler are the same thing, use one name. So merge. Mark the merged thing line "filled in"? Hmm, the thing line's *content* ("trawler is a boat") is partly from my merge.

Hmm, but actually — is the merge really needed? What if I just treat "the boat" as a distinct unnamed boat? Then "the boat had a crew" and "the catch" belong to a different boat than the trawler. That seems wrong (the passage is about one boat's trip and catch).

Alternatively, name the thing "boat" (atom boat) — the text calls it both "the trawler" and "the boat"; name it "boat" and kind "trawler"? Hmm: "boat is a trawler"! That keeps both words and reads naturally: the boat is a trawler. And the name "boat" is the text's word too. Hmm, but sentence 2 introduces it as "the trawler"...

I like "trawler is a boat" better (name = the first-introduced word; kind = the other word). Either way both words appear.

Regarding the mark: the identity is a reading. Options: (a) mark the thing line "filled in" and note the identification; (b) mark "said" and record the coreference in Readings. 

The task says under Readings I chose: "each as: the sentence, the readings open to me, the one I took" — so readings are recorded there. And the trap about literal/figurative says mark lines written from such readings "filled in". The coreference is a reading like that. To be safe: mark "filled in" with the note in the content. Hmm, but then a checker sees an "added" thing line... which is odd (thing lines shouldn't be added).

Hmm. Alternatively: keep the content purely said ("trawler is a boat") and put the note in Readings. The content itself ("trawler is a boat") is composed of two writer's words; the claim "the trawler is a boat" is supported by the text calling it "the boat". I think "said" with a Readings note is cleanest and most useful. Hmm, but rule 15's "split the line if you can" — I could split into two lines: `trawler` (thing: trawler is a trawler, said) and `boatname` (fact: the trawler is the boat of sentence 3, filled in)! That's the split option! Rule 15: "Where part was said and part is your choice, split the line if you can."

So:
- `trawler`: thing — TOLD in log_world — "trawler is a trawler; it answers a press as not stated" — said — 2.
 Hmm, "trawler is a trawler" — T10D style. OK.
- `boatname`: fact — TOLD in log_world — "the trawler is the boat of sentence 3; I take 'the boat' as this trawler" — filled in — 3.
  prolog: holds(is_boat(trawler))? Hmm. Or holds(named(trawler, boat)). Hmm: `holds(same_as(trawler, boat_of_sentence_3))`? Ugly.

Hmm. Alternatively `boatname` fact: "the trawler had a crew" is line crewed... 

Simpler: put the identification inside the `crewed` line (which is already filled in): "the trawler had a crew (the 'boat' of the binned question is this trawler; ...)".

Hmm! Yes: `crewed` is already filled in and covers sentence 3's content about the boat. I can note there: "the binned question's 'the boat' is the trawler". Then the trawler's thing line can be clean and said ("trawler is a trawler"). Hmm, but the kind "trawler" loses "boat"... which is preserved in the `crewed` line's note and in Readings. Fine — nothing silently dropped.

Hmm, but is "trawler is a trawler" useful? It records the kind as trawler. OK.

Hmm, alternatively make the thing line "trawler is a boat" said — honestly, "the trawler ... the boat" in the same passage with definite articles is standard coreference and the writer's own usage. I'll do "trawler is a boat" marked said, and record the coreference in Readings I chose (Sentence 3). And also mention in the `crewed` line "the trawler (the text's 'the boat')". 

Hmm, decision fatigue. Let me pick: thing line `trawler` content "trawler is a boat; it answers a press as not stated", mark "said", and a Readings entry explaining the coreference. This is clean, informative, and the reading is recorded. DONE.

Similarly "boats is a boat" for the six boats. Fine.

Now for the clerk: "clerk is a dockyard clerk; it answers a press as not stated" — keeps "dockyard". Mark said. OK. And harbourmaster: "harbourmaster is a harbourmaster"? Hmm. Let me do "harbourmaster is a harbour official" — no.What about giving the harbourmaster kind "person" and the clerk kind "dockyard clerk"? Inconsistent but each keeps the text's words. Hmm.

Or: clerk → "clerk is a dockyard clerk" and harbourmaster → "harbourmaster is a harbourmaster". Both use the text's noun phrase as the kind. It's consistent as a policy ("the kind is the text's own noun phrase"). I'll add a note in Readings: "Throughout: where the text gives a noun phrase, I use it as the thing's kind, so 'clerk is a dockyard clerk' and 'harbourmaster is a harbourmaster'; the response class stays not stated for every thing rather than guessed."

Hmm, "harbourmaster is a harbourmaster" really is silly. Let me instead write "harbourmaster is a person" — "person" is a plain lower-case kind word and the text marks the harbourmaster as a person by writing "who had written" (a person writes). Hmm, "the harbourmaster had written" — a person. And the clerk "her own count" — a person. So "person" is supported by the text. But then "dockyard" is dropped if I use "person" for the clerk.

Solution: name the clerk "dockyard clerk" (atom dockyard_clerk)! Then: "dockyard clerk is a person". And name the harbourmaster "harbourmaster" → "harbourmaster is a person". Both kinds "person", names from the text. That's clean and consistent! Names: "dockyard clerk", "harbourmaster". Multi-word name with underscore atom — allowed (group_structure precedent).

Similarly "north pier" as a name (already planned). ✓

So names & kinds:
- dockyard clerk (dockyard_clerk) is a person
- harbourmaster (harbourmaster) is a person
- log (log) is a log
- entry (entry) is an entry? Hmm — "entry is an entry". Let me name it "entry" and kind "entry"... or kind "log entry"? The text's phrase is "the entry". Hmm, with name "entry", kind could be "log entry" (adding "log" which appears in the context). Hmm, or just "entry". I'll use kind "log entry" (atom log_entry) — it names what sort of entry it is, and the link line entrylink says it's the log's entry. Hmm, but that duplicates. Use kind "entry": "entry is an entry". Meh. 

Alternative: name the thing "log entry" (atom log_entry)! Then "log entry is an entry"?? Hmm.

Let me just do: name "entry", kind "entry" — T10D style ("window is a window"). Fine. Actually hmm, how about naming it "entry" and kind "log entry" — I'll go with "entry is a log entry"; the word "log entry" is a plain description consistent with the text's context ("the log ... the entry"). It's arguably a filled-in refinement... ugh.

DECISION: "entry is an entry; it answers a press as not stated" (mark said). Consistent with T10D. And the link line gives its relation to the log. DONE.

- trawler (trawler) is a boat
- bar (bar) is a bar
- tide (tide) is a tide
- catch (catch) is a catch
- boats (boats) is a boat
- north pier (north_pier) is a pier
- repairs (repairs) is a repair jobHmm, "repairs is a repair job" — hmm. "repairs" is a mass/plural noun for work. Let me phrase "repairs is a repair job" — fine. Or skip the repairs thing line... I'll keep it.

Hmm, "catch is a catch" — fine (T10D style).

OK now let me write everything out. Also the prolog atom for the clerk: dockyard_clerk.

Let me re-list final lines with ids:

Actual:
- `clerk` — thing — GIVEN — said — 1 — "[GIVEN] dockyard clerk is a person; it answers a press as not stated"
  Hmm, the content should start with the name: "dockyard clerk is a person". OK.
  prolog: "kind(dockyard_clerk, person) :- line(clerk)." / "body(dockyard_clerk, not_stated) :- line(clerk)."
- `harbourmaster` — thing — GIVEN — said — 1 — "[GIVEN] harbourmaster is a person; it answers a press as not stated"
- `log` — thing — GIVEN — said — 1 — "[GIVEN] log is a log; it answers a press as not stated"
- `logown` — fact — GIVEN — said — 1 — "[GIVEN] the log is the harbourmaster's log"
- `p1` — happening — CLAIMED — said — 1 — "[CLAIMED] p1: dockyard clerk READS log"
- `entry` — thing — GIVEN — said — 5 — "[GIVEN] entry is an entry; it answers a press as not stated"
- `entrylink` — fact — GIVEN — filled in — 5 — "[GIVEN] the entry is the log's entry; I take the entry of sentence 5 as the entry written in the log"

log_world:
- `trawler` — thing — TOLD in world log_world — said — 2
- `bar` — thing — TOLD — said — 2
- `tide` — thing — TOLD — said — 2
- `turn` — fact — TOLD — said — 2 — "the tide had turned"
- `p2` — happening — TOLD — said — 2 — "p2: trawler CROSSES bar [across]"
- `cause1` — claim about lines (BECAUSE) — TOLD — said — 2 — "line p2 BECAUSE line turn"
- `catch` — thing — TOLD — said — 3
- `crewed` — fact — TOLD — filled in — 3
- `weighed` — fact — TOLD — filled in — 3
- `north_pier` — thing — TOLD — said — 5
- `repairs` — thing — TOLD — said — 5
- `due` — fact — TOLD — said — 5 — "repairs are due on the north pier"

count_world:
- `boats` — thing — TOLD in world count_world — said — 4
- `p3` — happening — TOLD — said — 4 — "p3: boats TIE UP; the thing tied to is not stated"

Total: 7 + 12 + 2 = 21 lines. Said = 18, filled in = 3 (entrylink, crewed, weighed), usual case = 0. ✓ matches earlier count.

Now the "Content" column kind: I don't need to name the kind, but the content shows the shape.

Now write the JSON. Fields per line: mark, sentence, standing, text, (case, case_kind for TOLD), prolog_clauses.

Note the standing strings: "TOLD in world log_world" and case "log_world", case_kind "told".

Also `whatifs`: [].

Now the bin entries in JSON need "sentence": integer, "words", "reason".

Bin list (11 entries):
1. s1 "for the week" — "Says which period the log covers; when is outside the language."
2. s2 "In it," — "A place phrase pointing into the log; where things are is outside the language. The link between the log and the entry is written as line entrylink."
3. s2 "the harbourmaster had written that" — "The attribution ('had written that'); who writes or records what is outside the language. The attribution is sent here and the content it frames is written as TOLD in world log_world."
4. s2 "early" — "Says when the trawler crossed; when is outside the language."
5. s3 "The log went on to list" — "The reporting frame ('list' as a record) and the sequence word 'went on'; a report frame and an order of listing have no form in the language. The items are kept as TOLD in world log_world."
6. s3 "who had crewed the boat" — "An indirect question; questions are outside the language. Its presupposed content, that the boat had been crewed, is kept as line crewed."
7. s3 "how much the catch had weighed" — "An indirect question carrying a quantity; questions and quantities are outside the language. Its presupposed content, that the catch had a weight, is kept as line weighed."
8. s4 "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that" — "The attribution to the clerk and to her own count ('also noted ... from her own count'); who records or knows what is outside the language. The content is written as TOLD in world count_world."
9. s4 "six" — "A number; numbers are outside the language. The boats are kept as one thing named boats."
10. s4 "before noon" — "Says when the boats tied up; when is outside the language and no stage in a fact needs it."
11. s5 "The rest of the entry concerned" — "'the rest' is a partitive quantity and 'concerned' an aboutness verb; quantities and aboutness have no form in the language. The content it frames is kept as TOLD in world log_world."

Now "The bin" as a list in the prose: each entry: the words from the text and the reason. ✓

Section 3 "Words I split": None.

Section 4 "Readings I chose": list as drafted.

Section 5 "The count":
- Lines said: 18
- Lines filled in: 3
- Lines usual case: 0
- Sentences that lost something to the bin: 5 of 5 (1, 2, 3, 4, 5)
- (extra note) Verbs with no shape in the shape book: READ, CROSSES, TURNS(no — turn is in a fact), TIE UP, and the report verbs sent to the bin. Let me list: read (p1), cross (p2), tie up (p3). Plus note "not checked".

Hmm, include that as a fifth bullet labelled "Verbs with no shape (so the checker will count them 'not checked'):". OK.

PARKED list: one line. E.g.: "PARKED: The BECAUSE in line cause1 rests on no stated rule that a turned tide moves a trawler, so the argument is thin; noted here and left alone." — that's a judgement about the writer's reasoning → parked. ✓

Now, also verify final checks:
- Every line has all five parts ✓ (table has 5 columns; JSON has mark, sentence, standing, text, prolog_clauses).
- Every thing has one name ✓.
- Every added line carries "filled in" ✓ (entrylink, crewed, weighed).
- Every sentence appears in ledger, bin, or both ✓ (s1: p1 & bin; s2: lines & bin; s3: lines & bin; s4: lines & bin; s5: lines & bin).
- Every image, quoted command and attributed belief is accounted for in the bin ✓ (attributions in bin entries 3 and 8).
- Output has all five sections and the closing line ✓.

One more thought on `crewed` and `weighed` being TOLD in log_world: their content is presupposition of sentence 3, whose framing is "the log went on to list" → content is the log's. ✓ And I record the projection question in Readings.

Hmm, also: should `crewed`'s content mention "the trawler (the text's 'the boat')"? I'll write: "[TOLD in world log_world] the trawler had a crew (the text's 'the boat' is this trawler; the question 'who had crewed the boat' is in the bin)". Hmm, the rule says "mark the whole line 'filled in' and say in the line which part you added". So: "the trawler had a crew — I take the question 'who had crewed the boat' to presuppose this crew and to speak of this trawler; the question itself is in the bin". OK.

Similarly weighed: "the catch had a weight — I take 'how much the catch had weighed' to presuppose this weight; the quantity and the question are in the bin".

Good.

Now let me also double check the claim_because spelling: effect "crossed(trawler, bar)" and p2's holds "crossed(trawler, bar)" ✓; cause "turned(tide)" and turn's holds "turned(tide)" ✓.

Now the JSON text fields: "[TOLD in world log_world] ..." etc.

Let me write the prose table now.

Also — should the table's Number column show the ids? Yes: clerk, harbourmaster, log, logown, p1, entry, entrylink, trawler, bar, tide, turn, p2, cause1, catch, crewed, weighed, boats, p3, north_pier, repairs, due.

Order in table: by sentence: s1: clerk, harbourmaster, log, logown, p1. s2: trawler, bar, tide, turn, p2, cause1. s3: catch, crewed, weighed. s4: boats, p3. s5: entry, entrylink, north_pier, repairs, due.

Hmm, entry is cited at sentence 5 (its first mention). Fine.

Let me write the JSON lines object in the same order.

One more: the "text" of p3: "[TOLD in world count_world] p3: boats TIE UP; the thing tied to is not stated". And prolog "holds(tied_up(boats)) :- line(p3)." Good.

For p2: "[TOLD in world log_world] p2: trawler CROSSES bar [across]" — prolog "holds(crossed(trawler, bar)) :- line(p2)."

For p1: "[CLAIMED] p1: dockyard clerk READS log" — prolog "holds(read(dockyard_clerk, log)) :- line(p1)."

Hmm, "READS" — the verb's plain name: "read". The shape book has no "read" → not checked. Fine.

Now write out everything. Also section headers exactly:
**1. The ledger**
**2. The bin**
**3. Words I split**
**4. Readings I chose**
**5. The count**
then PARKED, then JSON block, then TRANSLATION COMPLETE.

Let me write the Readings entries fully:

1. Sentence 1: 'the dockyard clerk' is one thing named dockyard clerk, with 'dockyard' kept in the name, or two things (a clerk and a dockyard). Taken: one thing, named dockyard clerk, so no word is dropped.
2. Sentence 1: 'the harbourmaster's log for the week' names one thing (the log) and 'for the week' is a period label kept in its name, or 'for the week' is a time and goes to the bin. Taken: the bin, since a period is a 'when' and no stage in a fact needs it. (contrast line due / rule 13... hmm)

Hmm, wait. Now I have "before noon" binned but if I had followed rule 13... Let me make reading entries for both times consistently:
- Sentence 1 'for the week': readings: kept as part of the log's name (like 'the plant by the door') or binned as a period. Taken: bin.
- Sentence 4 'before noon': readings: kept as the time named in a staged fact under rule 13 ('the boats tied up before noon') or binned as a time. Taken: bin, because the sentence reports the event of tying up (happening p3), not a standing state with two stages to tell apart.

Hmm, slight inconsistency but explained. Alternatively, take rule 13 for both? "the log for the week" isn't a state change. OK, my rule: times go to the bin except the stage named in a fact, and I record the tying up as a happening, so no stage fact takes a time here. And "the tide had turned" is a staged fact (rule 13) whose time ("had turned", earlier than the crossing) is the order of the chain — hmm! "the tide had turned" (past perfect) marks it as prior to the crossing. That's "the order of a chain" which is allowed. Fine, no bin.

OK. Let me finalize readings:

1. Sentence 1: 'the dockyard clerk' — one thing named dockyard clerk (taken) or a clerk and a separate dockyard. Taken: one thing named dockyard clerk, so the word 'dockyard' is kept in the name.
2. Sentence 1: 'for the week' — kept as part of the log's name ('the log for the week', as 'the plant by the door' is kept) or sent to the bin as a period. Taken: the bin, since it only says which period and the language has no form for a time outside a stage in a fact.
3. Sentence 2: 'the bar' — the sandbar at the harbour mouth (taken) or a bar or counter. Taken: the sandbar, named bar.
4. Sentence 2: 'the tide had turned' — a stage of the tide written into a fact (taken) or a happening of its own (p0: tide TURNS) to serve as the cause of a result. Taken: the staged fact, per the rule on stages.
5. Sentence 2: 'In it' — points at the log (taken) or at the entry. Taken: the log; the words are a place phrase and go to the bin, with the link kept in line entrylink.
6. Sentence 3: 'the boat' — the trawler of sentence 2 (taken) or a second boat. Taken: the trawler, so one name is used throughout and the trawler's kind line reads 'trawler is a boat'.
7. Sentence 3: 'who had crewed the boat' and 'how much the catch had weighed' — indirect questions whose answers are outside the language (taken), or noun phrases meaning 'the crew of the boat' and 'the weight of the catch' as items listed. Taken: indirect questions to the bin, with their presupposed content written as lines crewed and weighed.
8. Sentence 3: the presupposed crew and weight — they project out of 'the log listed' into the actual ledger as GIVEN (as the account's existence does in the same shape of sentence), or they stay inside the log's content. Taken: TOLD in world log_world, because the boat and the catch are named only inside the log's content. Marked filled in, since the presupposition is extracted from a binned question.

Hmm, entry 8 mixes reading and mark. Fine.

9. Sentence 4: 'noted' — the clerk recorded it in her own count (taken: TOLD in world count_world), or the writer asserts it on the strength of her count (CLAIMED in the actual ledger). Taken: TOLD in world count_world, since an attribution goes to the bin and its content goes to that person's world.
10. Sentence 4: 'six' and 'before noon' — a number and a time kept inside the fact's free description ('six boats tied up before noon'), or sent to the bin. Taken: 'six' to the bin (numbers are outside); 'before noon' to the bin as well, because the sentence reports the event of tying up as a happening and the rule that keeps a time keeps it only as the stage named in a fact.
11. Sentence 5: 'entry' — the log's written entry (taken) or the log itself. Taken: a separate thing named entry, linked to the log by line entrylink (filled in).
12. Sentence 5: 'due' — a plain description of the repairs (taken: they are the outstanding repairs) or a modal (the repairs ought to be done). Taken: the plain description, kept as fact due; under the modal reading 'due' would go to the bin as an obligation word.
13. Sentence 5: 'on the north pier' — a place phrase (which would go to the bin) or the identifying description of the repairs (taken, as 'the plant by the door' is kept). Taken: kept in the fact's description.
14. Sentence 5: 'the rest of the entry' — a partitive ('the rest') over the entry's parts. Taken: the partitive goes to the bin with the aboutness verb 'concerned'; the content stays as line due.
15. All sentences: no spelling slips to read; every word is taken as spelled.

Hmm, 15 entries is a lot but thorough. Maybe trim slightly. I'll keep most; it shows completeness. Maybe drop #3 (the bar) — no, keep, it's a genuine ambiguity. Keep all; it's fine.

Now, "Words I split": None — but hmm, should "due" be listed as a word split (fact-descriptive vs modal)? "Words I split" is for when the text uses one word in two senses — here one word, one use, two possible readings. That's Readings. So: None.

OK. Let me also double-check: did the text use any word in two senses? "the entry" (log entry) once. "list" once. "count" once ("her own count") — hmm, "count" as a noun (her counting) — and "clerk" once. No splits. ✓Now, the count section wording:
- Lines said: 18
- Lines filled in: 3 (entrylink, crewed, weighed)
- Lines usual case: 0
- Sentences that lost something to the bin: 5 — sentences 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5.

Plus the verbs note.

Now write the final output. Let me make sure the JSON is valid (no trailing commas, double quotes).

Also "whose": "Claude (Anthropic), under L82".

Let me write out the JSON carefully.

```json
{
 "paragraph": "B11",
 "whose": "Claude (Anthropic), under L82",
 "sentences": {
  "1": "The dockyard clerk read through the harbourmaster's log for the week.",
  "2": "In it, the harbourmaster had written that the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned.",
  "3": "The log went on to list who had crewed the boat and how much the catch had weighed.",
  "4": "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that six boats had tied up before noon.",
  "5": "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier."
 },
 "bin": [ ... 11 entries ... ],
 "leftover": [ ... 11 strings ... ],
 "whatifs": [],
 "lines": { ... 21 entries ... },
 "words_split": [],
 "readings_chosen": [ ... ]
}
```

The apostrophe in "harbourmaster's" inside a JSON double-quoted string is fine.

Let me write all lines' JSON entries.

clerk:
"clerk": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 1, "standing": "GIVEN", "text": "[GIVEN] dockyard clerk is a person; it answers a press as not stated", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(dockyard_clerk, person) :- line(clerk).", "body(dockyard_clerk, not_stated) :- line(clerk)."]}

harbourmaster:
"harbourmaster": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 1, "standing": "GIVEN", "text": "[GIVEN] harbourmaster is a person; it answers a press as not stated", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(harbourmaster, person) :- line(harbourmaster).", "body(harbourmaster, not_stated) :- line(harbourmaster)."]}

log:
"log": {..., "text": "[GIVEN] log is a log; it answers a press as not stated", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(log, log) :- line(log).", "body(log, not_stated) :- line(log)."]}

logown:
"logown": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 1, "standing": "GIVEN", "text": "[GIVEN] the log is the harbourmaster's log", "prolog_clauses": ["holds(kept_by(log, harbourmaster)) :- line(logown)."]}

p1:
"p1": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 1, "standing": "CLAIMED", "text": "[CLAIMED] p1: dockyard clerk READS log", "prolog_clauses": ["holds(read(dockyard_clerk, log)) :- line(p1)."]}

entry:
"entry": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 5, "standing": "GIVEN", "text": "[GIVEN] entry is an entry; it answers a press as not stated", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(entry, entry) :- line(entry).", "body(entry, not_stated) :- line(entry)."]}

entrylink:
"entrylink": {"mark": "filled in", "sentence": 5, "standing": "GIVEN", "text": "[GIVEN] the entry is the log's entry; I take the entry of sentence 5 as the entry written in the log", "prolog_clauses": ["holds(entry_of(entry, log)) :- line(entrylink)."]}

trawler:
"trawler": {"mark": "said", "sentence": 2, "standing": "TOLD in world log_world", "case": "log_world", "case_kind": "told", "text": "[TOLD in world log_world] trawler is a boat; it answers a press as not stated", "prolog_clauses": ["kind(trawler, boat) :- line(trawler).", "body(trawler, not_stated) :- line(trawler)."]}

bar, tide similar.

turn:
"text": "[TOLD in world log_world] the tide had turned", prolog ["holds(turned(tide)) :- line(turn)."]

p2:
"text": "[TOLD in world log_world] p2: trawler CROSSES bar [across]", prolog ["holds(crossed(trawler, bar)) :- line(p2)."]

cause1:
"text": "[TOLD in world log_world] line p2 BECAUSE line turn", prolog ["claim_because(cause1, crossed(trawler, bar), turned(tide)) :- line(cause1)."]

catch:
"text": "[TOLD in world log_world] catch is a catch; it answers a press as not stated"

crewed:
"text": "[TOLD in world log_world] the trawler had a crew; I take the binned question 'who had crewed the boat' to presuppose this crew and to speak of this trawler", mark filled in.

weighed:
"text": "[TOLD in world log_world] the catch had a weight; I take the binned words 'how much the catch had weighed' to presuppose this weight", mark filled in.

boats:
"[TOLD in world count_world] boats is a boat; it answers a press as not stated"

p3:
"[TOLD in world count_world] p3: boats TIE UP; the thing tied to is not stated", prolog ["holds(tied_up(boats)) :- line(p3)."]

north_pier:
"[TOLD in world log_world] north pier is a pier; it answers a press as not stated"

repairs:
"[TOLD in world log_world] repairs is a repair job; it answers a press as not stated"

due:
"[TOLD in world log_world] repairs are due on the north pier", prolog ["holds(due_on(repairs, north_pier)) :- line(due)."]

Good.

Now the prose table must match. Let me write it.

I also want to note the world names in the prose (maybe a one-line note before the table: "Named worlds: log_world = what the log records (the harbourmaster's entry); count_world = what the clerk's own count records."). That's helpful; is it allowed within section 1? It's a note, fine. Actually, better to put it in section 3/4 or as a note under the table. I'll add a short note line under the table. Hmm, "exactly this form" — a note should be harmless. I'll include a brief "Named worlds:" note right after the table. Or put it in Readings. Let me put a small note under the ledger table — it aids the reader ("could see which parts were the writer's and which were yours"). OK.

Also names note: "Named things: dockyard clerk, harbourmaster, log, entry, trawler (also the text's 'the boat'), bar, tide, catch, boats, north pier, repairs." Maybe include in the same note. Good.

Let me write the final answer now.

Double-check the count of "said" lines: clerk, harbourmaster, log, logown, p1, trawler, bar, tide, turn, p2, cause1, catch, boats, p3, north_pier, repairs, due = let me count: 1 clerk, 2 harbourmaster, 3 log, 4 logown, 5 p1, 6 trawler, 7 bar, 8 tide, 9 turn, 10 p2, 11 cause1, 12 catch, 13 boats, 14 p3, 15 north_pier, 16 repairs, 17 due = 17! Plus entry = said → 18. Right, I forgot entry in this enumeration. So said = 18 (including entry). Filled in = 3 (entrylink, crewed, weighed). Total 21. ✓

Now writing output.

For the leftover strings: 'Sentence 1: for the week — ...' using an em dash as in the example.

Final check on JSON validity — careful with apostrophes inside double-quoted strings (fine).

Write it.