Let me work through this text carefully.

The text:
1. "The dockyard clerk read through the harbourmaster's log for the week."
2. "In it, the harbourmaster had written that the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned."
3. "The log went on to list who had crewed the boat and how much the catch had weighed."
4. "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that six boats had tied up before noon."
5. "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier."

Key structural points:

Sentence 1: The clerk read the log. This is an actual event (CLAIMED). Things: clerk, log, harbourmaster (mentioned via possessive — the harbourmaster's log, so harbourmaster is a thing, GIVEN).

Sentence 2: "In it, the harbourmaster had written that..." — this is a report within a report. The harbourmaster wrote something (actual event, CLAIMED). What was written is TOLD in a named world (the log's world / what the log says). Inside that world: the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned. "Early" is a time reference — goes to bin (when, beyond order). "Because the tide had turned" — a BECAUSE claim inside the told world.

Wait — is the harbourmaster's writing itself actual, or is it told? The structure: "the harbourmaster had written that X". The writing is asserted as actual (CLAIMED). The content X is TOLD in a world (what the log says). Actually the example T10D: "The account says opening the window caused..." — the account's saying is GIVEN, and contents are TOLD in account_world. Here similarly: the harbourmaster wrote it — that's the report attribution. The contents go to a told world.

Sentence 3: "The log went on to list who had crewed the boat and how much the catch had weighed." — the log lists things. Again, the log's listing is actual; the listed contents are TOLD. "who had crewed the boat" — a question word, no specific content claimed. "how much the catch had weighed" — quantity, goes to bin. So sentence 3 mostly goes to the bin: the identity of crewers is not given (a question), and the weight is a quantity (outside the language). What remains: the log lists crew and catch weight — the act of listing. Hmm. The listing itself is a happening in the actual world: the log lists. But the content is unknown quantities/identities.

Sentence 4: "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that six boats had tied up before noon." — "The clerk noted" is attribution... but here it's the clerk's own count, and the content "six boats had tied up before noon" — six is a number (outside the language), before noon is a time (outside the language). What remains: boats tied up. Hmm, "six boats" — number goes to bin. "before noon" — time goes to bin. So the content reduces to "boats tied up". Is that TOLD in the clerk's world, or CLAIMED? "The clerk noted... that..." — the clerk noted it. Noted from her own count. This is attribution of a belief/observation. Per the rules: "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world."

Hmm, but "noted" here — the clerk observed. It's a report of what the clerk noted. So the content is TOLD in the clerk's world? Actually, "noted" is like "observed" — the clerk's own count. The content: boats tied up. I think TOLD in a world (clerk's note world) is right, with the attribution binned. But wait — is it? Let me think again. In T10D, "The account says X" — X is TOLD in account_world. Similarly "The clerk noted that X" — X is TOLD in clerk_world? Hmm, but "noted from her own count" — the count is the source. Actually I think the cleanest reading: the clerk's noting is the actual event (CLAIMED: clerk noted something), and the content is TOLD in a named world.

Hmm, but actually there's a subtlety: is the clerk's noting asserted as actual? Yes — the narrator tells us the clerk noted it. So the noting is CLAIMED in the actual ledger, and the content is TOLD in the clerk's world.

Actually wait. Let me reconsider. "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that six boats had tied up before noon." One could argue the narrator is simply reporting a fact (six boats tied up). But the grammar attributes it to the clerk's noting/count. Per rule 14 and the "who believes" rule, attribution goes to bin, content is TOLD in that person's world. I'll do that.

Sentence 5: "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier." — "the rest of the entry" — the entry (the log entry) is a thing. "concerned repairs due on the north pier" — the entry's content is about repairs. "due" — when? Time, goes to bin. "The rest" — quantity/portion, goes to bin. What remains: the entry concerns repairs on the north pier. That's a fact about the entry's content. Is it TOLD? Hmm. "The rest of the entry concerned repairs" — the narrator states what the entry is about. This is the narrator's description of the entry's content, not the entry speaking. Hmm.

Actually, "concerned" — the entry is about repairs. This could be a CLAIMED fact about the entry: entry concerns repairs on north pier. But "repairs due on the north pier" — repairs that are due (scheduled/owed) — "due" involves time/obligation (may/must/should — outside the language). So "due" goes to the bin. Remaining: the entry concerns repairs on the north pier.

Hmm, but is this TOLD? The entry isn't speaking here; the narrator is summarising. I'd say CLAIMED: the rest of the entry concerns repairs on the north pier. But "the rest" is a quantity — bin. So: the entry concerns repairs on the north pier — CLAIMED.

Hmm, but wait — sentence 2 and 3 establish the log as a thing that contains writing. Sentence 5's "the entry" — the log entry. The narrator tells us its content. I think treating it as CLAIMED (the narrator's assertion about what the entry concerns) is fine. Alternatively TOLD in the log's world. But "concerned" is the narrator's summary, not quoted content. I'll make it CLAIMED with "due" binned.

Actually, let me reconsider: is "the rest of the entry concerned repairs" similar to "the log went on to list..."? In sentence 3, the log lists (actual happening). In sentence 5, the entry concerned (past tense) repairs — a fact about the entry's subject matter. I'll write it as a fact: the entry concerns repairs on the north pier. CLAIMED, said.

Now things:
- clerk (dockyard clerk): a person. Response class: heavy and standing (a person). Actually the response classes: fixed (a wall); heavy and standing (a person); heavy and loose; light and loose; not a body; not stated. The clerk is a person → heavy and standing. But is that "usual case"? The guide says a class you guess is a filled-in line. A person being heavy and standing is... the language definition says "heavy and standing (a person)". I think for people we can state it as usual case or said? The text doesn't say how the clerk answers a press. Rule 3: "If the text does not say how it answers a press, write 'not stated'." Hmm. But the response class list explicitly maps "a person" to "heavy and standing". In example_A, things got kind lines but no body lines (the example_A.pl doesn't include body/2 clauses at all — actually it doesn't include them; the encoding guide says a thing line has both kind and body clauses, with body not_stated when not stated).

Hmm, example_A.json lines don't even have prolog_clauses shown (they're the simplified table). example_A.pl has kind/2 clauses but no body/2 clauses. The encoding guide says: "A thing line: kind(<thing>, <kind>) :- line(id). and body(<thing>, not_stated) :- line(id). (the response to a press, when not stated)."

So for each thing, I write kind and body not_stated. But should I ever write a response class? The guide only gives the not_stated form. The language definition says response classes include "heavy and standing (a person)". But the guide's vocabulary only shows `body(<thing>, not_stated)`. Since the text never states how anything answers a press, I'll use not_stated for all things. That's safest and matches the guide.

Things list:
- clerk (the dockyard clerk) — a person... kind: clerk? The kind should be plain: "clerk is a clerk" or "clerk is a person". I'll use kind(clerk, person). Hmm, in T10D: "account is an account". So "clerk is a clerk". Let me use kind(clerk, clerk). Actually "dockyard clerk" — the kind is clerk. Fine: clerk is a clerk; response not stated.
- harbourmaster — kind: harbourmaster. "the harbourmaster" — a person. kind(harbourmaster, harbourmaster).
- log — the harbourmaster's log for the week. kind: log. "for the week" — time, bin.
- trawler — a boat. kind: trawler (or boat). The text says "the trawler". kind(trawler, trawler)? Or kind(trawler, boat)? The kind is checked wherever another line speaks about that kind. I'll use kind(trawler, trawler). Hmm, but "the boat" in sentence 3 refers to the trawler presumably. "who had crewed the boat" — the boat = the trawler? Likely yes, but it's the log listing crew of the boat. I could treat "boat" as the same thing as trawler (the boat = the trawler). That's a reading. Or keep them separate. The text: "the trawler crossed the bar" (in the log), then "the log went on to list who had crewed the boat". The boat is presumably the trawler. I'll record that as a reading: "the boat" refers to the trawler. Use one name: trawler. Actually, to be careful: it might be a different boat, but the natural reading is the same boat. I'll merge and note it in readings chosen. Hmm, but merging means the crew listing concerns the trawler. Alternatively keep "boat" as separate thing. The instruction: "Give each thing one plain lower-case name and use that name throughout." If I believe they're the same, use one name. I'll treat them as the same (the trawler), noting the reading. Actually — safer to keep them distinct? If the checker checks kinds... The natural reading is that "the boat" is the trawler. I'll merge, and record the reading.

Hmm, wait. But sentence 3's content is mostly binned anyway (who crewed = question/identity not given; how much catch weighed = quantity). So the boat/trawler merge matters little. But the thing lines: if I merge, trawler is a thing in the told world (log world). If separate, boat is another thing. I'll merge: "the boat" = the trawler, recorded in readings.

- bar — "crossed the bar" — the bar is a sandbar at the harbour mouth. kind(bar, sandbar)? The text just says "the bar". kind(bar, bar). It's a thing in the told world. Response not stated.
- tide — "the tide had turned". kind(tide, tide). Told world.
- catch — "how much the catch had weighed". The catch is a thing; its weight is a quantity (bin). kind(catch, catch). Told world? The log lists the catch's weight — the catch is mentioned in the log's content. So TOLD in log world.
- boats (six boats) — sentence 4. "six boats had tied up". Number six → bin. The boats: kind(boats, boat). They're in the clerk's noted world. Hmm, "six boats" — a group of boats. I'll name them "boats" with kind boat. Response not stated.
- entry — "the rest of the entry". The entry = the log entry (for the week). Is the entry the same as the log? "The dockyard clerk read through the harbourmaster's log for the week. In it, the harbourmaster had written..." "The log went on to list..." "The rest of the entry concerned..." — the entry seems to be the log entry, i.e., the log. I could treat "entry" = "log". Hmm. "the rest of the entry" — the entry is the whole thing the clerk read. I think entry = log (same thing). But "the rest" implies a portion. Let me treat entry as the same thing as log? Or as a distinct thing: the entry (the week's log entry). Actually "the harbourmaster's log for the week" is a log; "the entry" is that week's entry in it. They're close enough — I'll merge entry with log and note the reading. Hmm, but then "the rest of the entry" = part of the log, which is a quantity/portion → bin. And "the entry concerns repairs" becomes "the log concerns repairs on the north pier". Hmm, that's a bit off: only the rest of the entry concerned repairs, not the whole log. If I merge, I lose that. But "the rest" is a portion — outside the language (quantities). So the line becomes: the log concerns repairs on the north pier — with "the rest" binned. That's acceptable; the bin notes the restriction.

Alternatively keep entry separate from log. Then: entry is an entry; the entry concerns repairs on the north pier. And the log contains the entry... The text doesn't say "the entry in the log". Hmm, "In it" refers to the log. "The rest of the entry" — the entry is what's being read. I think it's cleaner to keep "entry" as its own thing, since the text uses a different word. But then the relationship entry↔log is unstated. Hmm.

Actually, let me think about what's most faithful. The text: clerk reads the log for the week. In it (the log), harbourmaster wrote X. The log went on to list Y. The rest of the entry concerned Z. "The entry" = the week's log entry = the log. I'll merge entry with log, name it "log", and bin "the rest" as a portion. Record the reading. Hmm, but then sentence 5's fact "the log concerns repairs on the north pier" overstates (only the rest did). The bin entry for "the rest" will note that the concern is only with the remaining portion. That's fine.

Hmm, alternatively keep entry separate: kind(entry, entry), and fact: entry concerns repairs on north pier. That preserves the restriction better (the entry is the thing that concerns repairs; "the rest" binned). And the log–entry relationship is not stated... but honestly "entry" and "log" here refer to the same physical record. I'll merge. Actually no — let me not merge, because merging forces "the log concerns repairs" which conflicts with sentences 2-3 (the log contains the tide report and the crew list). If the log concerns repairs, that's a bit contradictory with the log listing crew... not really contradictory, "concerns" is loose. But keeping entry separate is cleaner and avoids false implication. Hmm, but then I have two names for what may be one thing, violating "one name one thing"?

The rule is: one name per thing; when one word has two senses, split. Here two words (log, entry) may be one thing. Merging is the "one name" choice. But the risk: stating "the log concerns repairs on the north pier" as CLAIMED when the text says only the rest of the entry did.

Decision: I'll keep them separate — "log" (the harbourmaster's log for the week) and "entry" (the entry whose rest concerned repairs) — and record in "Readings I chose" that they may be the same record, but I kept them apart because the text gives them different roles and does not say the entry is in the log. Wait, actually... "The rest of the entry" strongly implies the entry = the thing being read = the log. Ugh.

Let me just decide: merge into "log". Bin "the rest" (portion). The fact: "the log concerns repairs on the north pier" — hmm, but with "the rest" binned, the line says more than the text. The bin note will say: only the remaining portion is meant. Actually, you know, the cleanest: keep "entry" as a separate thing. The text treats "the entry" as the object with content (sentences 2,3 are what the log/entry says; sentence 5 the rest of the entry). Honestly, "log" and "entry" are near-synonyms here for the same record. The instruction about splitting is for one word two senses, not two words one sense. For two words possibly one thing, either is defensible; I'll merge and note it.

Hmm, hold on. Let me reconsider once more. If I merge: things are clerk, harbourmaster, log, trawler, bar, tide, catch, boats, pier, repairs. Sentence 5: "the log concerns repairs on the north pier" CLAIMED, with "the rest of" binned (portion). That's a clean fact. The potential clash with "the log lists crew/catch" — no clash, a log can list many things. OK, merging it is. Actually wait, one more consideration: "the rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier" — if the whole log concerned repairs, why say "the rest"? Because sentences 2-4 are the earlier parts. So "the rest" = the remaining portion after the tide report, crew list, and boat count. Binning "the rest" loses the portion restriction but the bin records it. Fine.

Hmm, actually, I realize I keep flip-flopping. Let me settle: KEEP entry separate from log. Reason: the text's "the rest of the entry" marks a portion of a specific entry; merging would make me assert the whole log concerns repairs, which the text does not say. With entry separate, I assert "the entry concerns repairs on the north pier" — still slightly over (only the rest), but "the rest" is binned with its reason. And the entry's relation to the log is left unstated (not stated). Hmm, but then what is the entry? kind(entry, entry). And how does it connect? It doesn't connect to anything, which makes it float. The checker might flag nothing; it's just an isolated thing+fact.

OK final decision: merge into "log". Simpler, one name for one record, and the bin records the portion restriction. Readings chosen will note it.

Wait, actually, no. Let me think about which is more defensible for the checker's "added lines" test and completeness. The text mentions: log (s1), entry (s5). If I use one name "log" for both, then sentence 5's line is about the log. The fact "the log concerns repairs on the north pier" — is that said? The text says "the rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier". With "the rest of" and "due" binned, and entry=log, the remainder is "the log concerned repairs on the north pier". Yes, said (with those reductions). OK. Merging. FINAL.

Hmm, hmm. One more angle: "repairs due on the north pier" — "due" means owed/scheduled. That's obligation/time → bin. "on the north pier" — location! "Where things are; inside, outside and openings" — outside the language. So "on the north pier" → bin too! So the fact becomes: "the log concerns repairs" — with "due" and "on the north pier" binned. And "pier" as a thing? If the location goes to the bin, do I still need a thing line for the pier? The pier is mentioned. Rule 3: every thing in a happening must have a thing line. Is there a happening involving the pier? No — repairs due on the pier. The pier is a location, and locations are outside the language. So the pier doesn't need a thing line; it goes to the bin as part of the location phrase. Similarly "the north pier" — bin.

And "repairs" — a thing? "the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier" — repairs are concerned. Repairs as a kind: repairs. Is there a happening? No. It's a fact about the log's content: the log concerns repairs. I could write: holds(concerns(log, repairs)). And repairs as a thing? Repairs aren't a thing in a happening. The thing rule applies to things in happenings. I'll give repairs no thing line... but then "concerns(log, repairs)" mentions repairs without a kind. Hmm. Safer: give repairs a thing line? The rule says every thing in a happening. Repairs aren't in a happening. I'll skip a thing line for repairs but... hmm, in example T10D, "letter" and "window" got thing lines because they're in the opening/dry happenings. Here, repairs aren't in a happening. I think it's fine to have holds(concerns(log, repairs)) without a kind line for repairs. But to be safe and complete, maybe write the fact differently: "the log concerns repairs on the north pier" → the content is about repairs. Let me just write holds(concerns(log, repairs)) and not create a repairs thing. Hmm, but the checker checks kinds "wherever another line speaks about that kind". If no line speaks of repairs as a kind, no issue.

Actually, hmm, let me reconsider whether sentence 5 should be TOLD. "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier." This is the narrator telling us the entry's subject. It's not the entry speaking. So CLAIMED fact about the log. OK.

Now sentence 2 in detail:
"In it, the harbourmaster had written that the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned."

Actual ledger:
- The harbourmaster wrote in the log (happening, CLAIMED): harbourmaster wrote the log? "had written that..." — the harbourmaster wrote the log (or wrote in the log). Happening: harbourmaster WRITE log? Hmm, "In it, the harbourmaster had written that X" — the writing event: harbourmaster wrote in the log. I could write: happening w1: harbourmaster wrote in the log. But "wrote in" — the verb "write" has no shape in the shape book (press, release, hold, press then release — throw/toss/hurl/push/pull/lean on/hit/drop/let go of/open a fist on/hold/close a fist on). Write isn't listed → "not checked" verb. Hmm. Do I need to write it as a happening? The key content is what was written (TOLD). The writing itself: I could state as a fact: "the log is written by the harbourmaster" or a happening. 

Let me follow T10D's pattern: there, "The account says" → account is GIVEN thing; the contents are TOLD in account_world; the saying itself wasn't written as a happening — the account's existence was GIVEN. Here: "the harbourmaster had written [in the log]" — the harbourmaster's writing is asserted. I could write a happening: harbourmaster wrote the log. But "write" has no shape → reported "not checked". Alternatively, state as fact: holds(wrote(harbourmaster, log))? Hmm, that's odd too.

Actually, in T10D the bin entry says: "The account's existence is GIVEN; neither its described opening, its dryness nor its causal claim is asserted in the actual ledger." So the saying was binned as attribution, and contents went to the world. Here, similarly: "the harbourmaster had written that..." — the attribution (that the harbourmaster wrote it) is retained in the bin, scoping contents to log_world. But the harbourmaster's writing is an actual event asserted by the narrator... In T10D, "the account says" is present-tense framing; here "had written" is a past event. I think it's worth recording as an actual happening: harbourmaster wrote in the log. But write has no shape. The guide says verbs missing from the shape book are reported "not checked" and counted — that's fine, it's allowed (example T10D lists "open" as a verb without shape in its gauge).

Hmm, but do I want to introduce a shapeless verb? The language allows it (reported "not checked"). But maybe simpler: treat "the harbourmaster had written in the log" as GIVEN background and put the attribution in the bin like T10D. Let me look at T10D again: it binned "The account says" entirely, with the account as a GIVEN thing. Here, the harbourmaster is a thing (GIVEN? CLAIMED?). The harbourmaster's existence is GIVEN (the log is the harbourmaster's). 

I think the cleanest parallel: 
- clerk is a thing (CLAIMED? GIVEN?). Sentence 1 asserts the clerk read the log — clerk is the doer. Thing line for clerk: CLAIMED (from sentence 1, the main clause). Actually thing lines' standing: in T10D, "account is an account" was GIVEN (from "The account says" — the account's existence is background). Here, sentence 1's main clause is about the clerk: "The dockyard clerk read through the harbourmaster's log for the week." The clerk is the doer of the reading → CLAIMED thing line? Or GIVEN? Rule 4: main clause is CLAIMED; "who", "which", "as", "while", "-ing" descriptions are GIVEN. The clerk is introduced in the main clause as doer → the clerk exists → I'd say the clerk's thing line is CLAIMED (sentence 1). Hmm, in example_A: "1": the balcony plants are tomato plants — from sentence 1's main clause, mark said. Standing isn't shown in example_A.json (it's the old format). 

I'll mark: clerk thing line CLAIMED sentence 1; harbourmaster thing line GIVEN sentence 1 (possessive, background); log thing line CLAIMED sentence 1 (main clause object).

Hmm, T10D marked account as GIVEN. The account there was the subject of "says". Here the log is the object of "read through" in the main clause — part of the main clause. I'll mark log CLAIMED. Harbourmaster: from possessive "the harbourmaster's log" — GIVEN (a possessive description, background). Clerk: main clause doer — CLAIMED.

Now the reading happening (sentence 1): "The dockyard clerk read through the harbourmaster's log for the week." Happening: clerk READ log. "read through" — verb read, no shape → not checked. "for the week" — time → bin. So: happening r1: clerk read the log. Doer: clerk (a person). Verb: read (no shape). Thing: log. Direction: none. 

Hmm, should I even write the reading as a happening? It's the main clause; yes, it's asserted. Write it: "r1: clerk READ log" — with verb read having no shape. The checker will report "not checked". That's honest. Alternatively bin it? No — it's the main assertion of sentence 1; it should be a line. I'll write it as a happening with the note that read has no shape (in the gauge/verbs_without_shape).

Wait — but happenings are for physical verbs with shapes (press/release/hold). "Read" is not physical. The language says: "A verb missing from the shape book is reported 'not checked' and counted." So it's permitted. OK.

Actually, hmm, maybe better as a Fact: "clerk read the log" as holds(read(clerk, log))? The language's Happening kind is "DOER VERB THING [DIRECTION]" checked through the verb's shape. Since read isn't in the shape book, writing it as a happening yields "not checked". Writing it as a fact avoids the shape issue but facts are "THING plus any plain description". "clerk read the log" — could be a fact: holds(read(clerk, log)). Hmm. The distinction: happenings are tested by physical laws; facts aren't. Reading isn't physical. I think a Fact is more appropriate: "the clerk read the log" — holds(read(clerk, log)). But then the "happening" kind is for who-did-what-to-what. Reading is something the clerk did to the log...

I'll go with a Fact: holds(read(clerk, log)) — since read has no shape and the physical laws don't apply, a fact is the cleaner container, and the guide's fact form is free-form. Hmm, but the task says "Happenings. Write who did what to what, and which way, using the text's own verb." Reading is a doing... 

Let me look at T10D's "opening": they wrote "window was opened" as a Fact (holds(opened(window))) rather than a happening, because the opener is unnamed and open has no shape. They called it "eventive Fact". That's my precedent: verbs without shapes → write as fact. So sentence 1: holds(read(clerk, log)) as a CLAIMED fact. And sentence 2's writing: holds(wrote(harbourmaster, log))? Hmm, "In it, the harbourmaster had written that..." — the harbourmaster wrote in the log. Fact: holds(wrote_in(harbourmaster, log))? Or as T10D did with the account: bin the attribution and scope contents to the world. 

Hmm. But the harbourmaster's writing IS an actual event asserted by the narrator (unlike "the account says" which is present-tense framing). I want to record it. I'll record it as a CLAIMED fact: "the harbourmaster wrote the log" — holds(wrote(harbourmaster, log)). Wait, "In it... had written" — wrote in the log. The log is the harbourmaster's log; the harbourmaster wrote in it. Fact: holds(wrote_in(harbourmaster, log)). Hmm, or simply that the log is the harbourmaster's writing. Let me simplify: fact: "the harbourmaster wrote the log" — holds(wrote(harbourmaster, log)). Mark said, CLAIMED, sentence 2. And the "In it" → the writing is in the log; since the log is the harbourmaster's log and he wrote in it, holds(wrote(harbourmaster, log)) captures it. Hmm, "wrote the log" vs "wrote in the log" — the whole log vs an entry. Eh. I'll use wrote_in(harbourmaster, log). Hmm, actually simpler: since the log is described as "the harbourmaster's log" (s1) and "the harbourmaster had written in it" (s2), the fact is: the harbourmaster wrote the log. I'll go holds(wrote(harbourmaster, log)).

Hmm wait, actually, should the writing be binned as attribution instead? The T10D approach bins the saying and lets the world carry the content. But here, the writing is a real past event, not just a framing device. Also the harbourmaster is a thing. I'll keep the writing fact in the actual ledger (CLAIMED) AND put the contents in log_world (TOLD). And bin "In it" as the attribution marker? No — "In it" just links the writing to the log. The attribution-to-world scoping is handled by making the contents TOLD in log_world. I don't need to bin "the harbourmaster had written" because I'm recording it as an actual fact. Good: no bin needed for the attribution itself; the world carries the reported content.

Hmm, but wait: is there a risk of double-counting? The contents are TOLD (not claimed actual). The writing is actual. That's exactly right: the narrator asserts the harbourmaster wrote X; X itself is only what the log says.

Now the told world (log_world — "what the log says"):
- trawler is a trawler (thing, TOLD)
- bar is a bar (thing, TOLD)
- tide is a tide (thing, TOLD)
- trawler crossed the bar (happening? "crossed" — verb cross, no shape → fact: holds(crossed(trawler, bar))). Hmm, "crossed the bar" — the bar is a sandbar; crossing is movement. Cross isn't in the shape book. So fact: holds(crossed(trawler, bar)). TOLD.
- "early" — time → bin.
- "the tide had turned" — fact: holds(turned(tide)). TOLD. Turn isn't in the shape book either. Fact.
- BECAUSE: the trawler crossed the bar because the tide had turned. TOLD: claim_because(b1, crossed(trawler, bar), turned(tide)).

Wait — is "because the tide had turned" inside the reported content? Yes: the harbourmaster wrote that the trawler crossed early because the tide had turned. So the causal claim is part of what the log says → TOLD in log_world. Good, matches T10D's treatment.

Also the trawler, bar, tide are things in the happening/facts → they need thing lines (rule 3) in the told world.

Sentence 3: "The log went on to list who had crewed the boat and how much the catch had weighed."
- Actual: the log listed (went on to list) — fact: holds(listed(log, ...)). What did it list? "who had crewed the boat" (identities — not given, a question word) and "how much the catch had weighed" (a quantity — outside the language). 
- So the content of the listing is entirely outside the language: identities and quantities. Bin: "who had crewed the boat" (identity of crew — not stated, a question word) and "how much the catch had weighed" (quantity/weight — outside the language).
- What remains that's writable: the log listed crew and catch weight. Hmm. Can I write: holds(listed(log, crew_of(trawler)))? The crew identities aren't given. I think sentence 3 mostly goes to the bin. But "Every sentence of the text appears in the ledger, in the bin, or both." Sentence 3 appears in the bin (the two content parts) — but does the framing "The log went on to list" appear? I should record it: the log listed these things. As a fact: "the log listed the crew and the catch's weight" — but those contents are binned... 

Option: write a fact "the log listed the trawler's crew and the catch's weight" CLAIMED, with the specific identities/amounts binned. Hmm, but then I mention "crew" and "catch weight" — things without thing lines? The catch is a thing (mentioned). Crew — a group.

Alternative: bin the whole sentence with the reason that its content is identity and quantity, both outside the language. But then "The log went on to list" — the listing act — is lost. Is the listing act worth a line? It's the main clause: "The log went on to list X and Y." The assertion: the log lists the crew and the catch weight. I think I can write: holds(lists(log, crew(trawler))) and holds(lists(log, weight(catch)))? But weight is a quantity → outside. Hmm, "how much the catch had weighed" — the weight amount is outside; that the log lists the catch's weight is a fact about the log's content.

Let me think about what's committal: the log lists (a) who crewed the boat, (b) the catch's weight. Commitments: the boat was crewed by someone (identities unknown); the catch had some weight (amount unknown). Both contents are outside the language (identity, quantity). So the writable residue: the log lists crew and catch-weight; the boat was crewed; the catch weighed something.

I'll write:
- Fact (CLAIMED, said, s3): the log lists the trawler's crew. Hmm... "who had crewed the boat" — the log lists the crew. 
- Fact (CLAIMED, said, s3): the log lists the catch's weight.
- Bin: "who had crewed the boat" — the identities are not given (question word); identity is outside the language. And "how much the catch had weighed" — the amount is a quantity, outside the language.

Hmm, but is writing "the log lists the trawler's crew" adding content? It's a faithful paraphrase of "listed who had crewed the boat" with the boat=trawler merge. I think it's fine as said.

Alternatively, treat sentence 3's listing as TOLD in log_world (the log's content). Hmm — "The log went on to list" is the narrator telling us what the log contains. That's the narrator's assertion about the log, not quoted content. So CLAIMED in the actual ledger. But the listed items themselves (crew identities, catch weight) are the log's content — TOLD? This is getting nested. Simplest: the log lists the crew and the catch's weight — CLAIMED facts about the log (the narrator's summary). The specific identities/amounts → bin.

Hmm, wait. Actually, maybe cleaner: the crew and catch are things in the log's world. "who had crewed the boat" — the boat was crewed (by unnamed people). "how much the catch had weighed" — the catch weighed some amount. Since identities and amounts are outside the language, bin them. But then do I write anything from sentence 3? I'll write the two listing facts. And give "catch" a thing line? The catch is mentioned in the log's listing. If I write holds(lists(log, weight(catch))), catch appears. Rule 3: every thing in a happening needs a thing line. This isn't a happening. But to be safe, give catch a thing line: "catch is a catch; response not stated" — standing? It's from sentence 3, mentioned in the listing. CLAIMED? GIVEN? The catch appears in a subordinate "how much" clause — GIVEN-ish. Hmm.

Let me simplify sentence 3 handling:
- Bin entry 1: "who had crewed the boat" — identity of the crew; question word, no identities given; identity is outside the language.
- Bin entry 2: "how much the catch had weighed" — quantity; outside the language.
- Line: fact, CLAIMED, said, s3: the log lists the trawler's crew and the catch's weight. Hmm, one line or two? One fact: holds(lists(log, crew(trawler))) and holds(lists(log, weight(catch)))? I'll do two lines for clarity, or one line with both. Let me do one line: "the log lists the trawler's crew and the catch's weight" — hmm, the language's fact is "THING plus any plain description". A fact line: "log lists crew of trawler and weight of catch". I'll write two clauses under one line? The guide allows multiple prolog clauses per line. But one line = one content. Let me do two lines:
  - l1: [CLAIMED] log lists the trawler's crew (said, s3)
  - l2: [CLAIMED] log lists the catch's weight (said, s3)
- Thing line for catch: [CLAIMED] catch is a catch; response not stated (s3). Hmm, standing: the catch is introduced in the reported listing... I'd say GIVEN (it's within the log's listed content, background to the listing fact). Ugh. Let me think: sentence 3's main clause is "The log went on to list...". The catch appears in the listed content. As a thing, the catch's existence is part of what the log lists — the narrator asserts the log lists the catch's weight, so the catch exists (or existed). I'll mark the catch thing line as CLAIMED (sentence 3) — the narrator commits to there being a catch. Hmm, or GIVEN. In T10D, letter/window (things in the reported content) were TOLD in the world. Here, the catch is in the log's listed content — should it be TOLD in log_world? 

Hmm! Interesting. The crew and catch weight are what the log lists — they're the log's content. So arguably TOLD in log_world: "the trawler was crewed" and "the catch weighed [some amount]" are in the log's world. But the narrator also asserts the log lists these. 

I think the cleanest: 
- Actual ledger: the log lists the trawler's crew (CLAIMED fact); the log lists the catch's weight (CLAIMED fact).
- The specific identities and the amount → bin (outside the language: identity, quantity).
- No TOLD world lines for sentence 3, because the identities/amounts aren't given — there's no content to put in the world. The listing facts are about the actual log.

But then "catch" needs a thing line if it's in a happening... it's not in a happening, it's in a fact (lists(log, weight(catch))). I'll give catch a thing line anyway for completeness: [CLAIMED] catch is a catch; response not stated. Hmm, standing... I'll say GIVEN (it's part of the listed content, background). Hmm.

Hmm, let me reconsider: maybe simpler to bin sentence 3's contents entirely and record only the listing act. Actually, you know what? Let me reconsider whether "the log lists the trawler's crew" is even worth asserting. The commitments: the log contains a crew list and a catch weight. That IS a commitment (the log's content). I'll keep the two listing facts. And thing lines for catch (and maybe crew? "crew" as a group — I won't make crew a thing; I'll write the fact as lists(log, crew_of(trawler)) where crew_of(trawler) is a term, not a named thing. Hmm, that references an unnamed group. Fine — the term is just a description.)

Actually, to keep it clean: 
- holds(lists(log, crew_of(trawler))) — the log lists the trawler's crew.
- holds(lists(log, weight_of(catch))) — the log lists the catch's weight.
And catch thing line: kind(catch, catch), body(catch, not_stated). Standing: CLAIMED? I'll go CLAIMED since the narrator commits to a catch being listed... hmm, actually the catch's existence is presupposed by "the catch had weighed". GIVEN. Let me go GIVEN for catch (sentence 3). Hmm, in example_A, thing lines from main clauses were "said". The catch comes from a subordinate interrogative clause → GIVEN. OK: catch thing line GIVEN, said, s3.

Wait, but hold on — should the catch and its weight be in log_world (TOLD)? "how much the catch had weighed" is listed content. The catch weighing something is what the log says. Hmm. But the log listing it is actual. I think putting the listing facts in the actual ledger as CLAIMED is right (the narrator asserts what the log lists). The catch thing: since it's the log's content, maybe TOLD in log_world. But the listing fact in the actual ledger references it... A told-world thing referenced by an actual fact — messy. 

Decision: keep it simple. Sentence 3: two CLAIMED listing facts (actual), catch thing line GIVEN (actual), and bin the identity/quantity parts. No log_world lines for s3. This is defensible: the narrator tells us what the log lists; the specific values are unknown/outside.

Hmm, hmm. Alternatively — even simpler and maybe more honest — bin all of sentence 3's content and write only "the log lists the trawler's crew and the catch's weight" as one fact. I'll do the two-fact version. Fine.

Sentence 4: "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that six boats had tied up before noon."
- Attribution: "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that" → bin (who believes/noted what; the count as source). The content → TOLD in clerk_world? Per the "who believes" rule: "Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world."
- Content: "six boats had tied up before noon". Six (number) → bin. "before noon" (time) → bin. Residue: boats tied up.
- So: TOLD in clerk_world: boats tied up. Hmm — "tied up" is a verb: tie up. Shape? Not in the shape book (press/release/hold...). "tie up" — hmm, tying up a boat: a cleat/knot. Not listed → not checked. As a fact: holds(tied_up(boats)). 
- Things: boats (a group of six). Thing line: [TOLD in clerk_world] boats are boats; response not stated.

Wait — should the content be TOLD, or is the clerk's noting an actual event with the content claimed? The rule is explicit: attribution → bin, content → TOLD in that person's world. So TOLD in clerk_world. But hmm — "noted" is observation, not belief. The rule says "Who believes, wants or concludes what." Noting is close to concluding/observing. I'll treat it as attribution → bin, content TOLD in clerk_world ("what the clerk noted").

Hmm, but actually — is that right? "The clerk noted that six boats had tied up" — in ordinary reading, the narrator reports that six boats tied up, sourcing it to the clerk's count. The commitment includes: six boats tied up before noon (per the clerk's count). Making it TOLD in a world is the rule-following choice. But then the actual ledger has no claim about the boats... The T10D precedent supports this. OK: TOLD in clerk_world.

But wait — the clerk's noting itself: is it an actual happening? "The clerk also noted..." — the clerk noted something. That's an actual event (CLAIMED): holds(noted(clerk, ...)). Hmm, but the rule says send the attribution to the bin. In T10D, "The account says" was binned and the account's existence was GIVEN; the saying wasn't written as a happening. Here, similarly: bin "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that" as attribution scoping the content to clerk_world. But should I also record that the clerk noted it? The bin entry retains it. I think that's the pattern: bin the attribution, TOLD the content. But hmm, the clerk's noting is an actual event asserted... 

Let me look at the task rules again: "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." So: bin the attribution, TOLD the content. The noting event itself isn't written as a line. OK, following that.

Hmm, but then sentence 4's actual-ledger presence is only the bin entry. Is that OK? "Every sentence of the text appears in the ledger, in the bin, or both." Yes, bin counts. OK.

But hmm, wait: should the boats thing line be in the told world? Yes: boats are a thing in clerk_world (TOLD). And the fact holds(tied_up(boats)) in clerk_world.

Also "six" — number → bin. "before noon" — time → bin. "boats" — the six boats as a group. In clerk_world: kind(boats, boat), body(boats, not_stated), holds(tied_up(boats)).

Hmm, one question: "tied up" — tied up where? At the dock, presumably. Not stated → fine.

Sentence 5: "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier."
- "The rest of the entry" — portion → bin. entry = log (merged).
- "concerned repairs due on the north pier" — the log concerns repairs; "due" (obligation/schedule — may/must/should territory) → bin; "on the north pier" (location) → bin.
- Line: [CLAIMED] log concerns repairs (said, s5). holds(concerns(log, repairs)).
- Thing line for repairs? Repairs aren't in a happening. I'll skip... hmm. But holds(concerns(log, repairs)) mentions repairs. To be safe, give repairs a thing line? "repairs are repairs; response not stated" — that's weird. The rule: "Every thing in a happening must have a thing line of its own." Repairs aren't in a happening. I'll skip the repairs thing line. Hmm, but the checker checks kinds "wherever another line speaks about that kind" — concerns(log, repairs) doesn't speak about a kind. OK, skip.

Hmm, wait. Actually, let me reconsider sentence 5 once more. "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier." With entry=log merged and "the rest of" binned: "the log concerned repairs due on the north pier". With "due" and "on the north pier" binned: "the log concerned repairs". So the line: the log concerns repairs. Hmm, "concerned" past tense — the log's content. Fine: holds(concerns(log, repairs)).

Hmm, is "concerns" too weak to be a commitment? It's what the sentence says. OK.

Now, also: should sentence 5's content be TOLD in log_world (the entry's content)? "The rest of the entry concerned repairs" — the narrator's summary of the entry's subject. I'll keep it CLAIMED in the actual ledger (the narrator asserts this about the log). 

Hmm, wait, but there's an inconsistency: sentence 2's log content is TOLD, sentence 3's listing is CLAIMED, sentence 5's concerning is CLAIMED. Is that inconsistent? Sentence 2: "the harbourmaster had written that X" — explicit reported speech → TOLD. Sentence 3: "the log went on to list Y" — the narrator reports the log's contents as a fact about the log → CLAIMED fact about the log. Sentence 5: same pattern → CLAIMED. That's defensible: s2 has explicit reported content ("written that"), s3/s5 have the narrator summarizing the log's contents.

Hmm, but one could argue s3's listed items are also TOLD content. The distinction: in s2, the specific claim (trawler crossed because tide turned) is presented as the harbourmaster's written words → TOLD. In s3, the items are summarized by the narrator, and their specific values are unknown → the narrator's assertion is just "the log lists these" → CLAIMED. OK, going with that.

Now the thing lines summary:
Actual ledger:
- clerk: kind(clerk, clerk), body(clerk, not_stated). Standing: CLAIMED (s1, main clause doer). Mark: said.
- harbourmaster: kind(harbourmaster, harbourmaster), body(harbourmaster, not_stated). Standing: GIVEN (s1, possessive background). Mark: said. Hmm — or CLAIMED from s2 ("the harbourmaster had written")? The harbourmaster first appears in s1 as possessive. I'll put the thing line at s1 GIVEN. But then s2's writing fact references harbourmaster... fine, GIVEN covers it.
- log: kind(log, log), body(log, not_stated). Standing: CLAIMED (s1). Mark: said.
- catch: kind(catch, catch), body(catch, not_stated). Standing: GIVEN (s3). Mark: said.

log_world (TOLD):
- trawler: kind(trawler, trawler), body(trawler, not_stated). TOLD in world log_world, said, s2.
- bar: kind(bar, bar), body(bar, not_stated). TOLD, said, s2.
- tide: kind(tide, tide), body(tide, not_stated). TOLD, said, s2.
- crossed: holds(crossed(trawler, bar)) — TOLD, said, s2.
- turned: holds(turned(tide)) — TOLD, said, s2.
- because: claim_because(because, crossed(trawler, bar), turned(tide)) — TOLD, said, s2.

clerk_world (TOLD):
- boats: kind(boats, boat), body(boats, not_stated). TOLD, said, s4.
- tied: holds(tied_up(boats)) — TOLD, said, s4.

Actual facts:
- read: holds(read(clerk, log)) — CLAIMED, said, s1.
- wrote: holds(wrote(harbourmaster, log)) — CLAIMED, said, s2. Hmm — "In it, the harbourmaster had written that..." — the harbourmaster wrote in the log. holds(wrote_in(harbourmaster, log))? I'll use wrote(harbourmaster, log). Hmm, "wrote the log" implies he wrote the whole log; "had written in it" implies he wrote entries in it. Since s1 says it's the harbourmaster's log, and s2 says he had written in it, holds(wrote(harbourmaster, log)) is a reasonable commitment. Let me use wrote_in(harbourmaster, log) to be precise? Hmm, the term name is free. I'll use wrote(harbourmaster, log) — simpler. Actually "wrote_in" is more faithful. Meh — I'll use wrote(harbourmaster, log) and note in the line text "the harbourmaster wrote in the log".

Hmm, wait: should the writing be a happening instead? "harbourmaster WRITE log" — write has no shape → not checked. As a fact it's cleaner (T10D precedent with "opened"). Fact it is.

- lists_crew: holds(lists(log, crew_of(trawler))) — CLAIMED, said, s3.
- lists_weight: holds(lists(log, weight_of(catch))) — CLAIMED, said, s3.
- concerns: holds(concerns(log, repairs)) — CLAIMED, said, s5.

Bin entries:
1. s1: "for the week" — when; time is outside the language (beyond order and stage).
2. s2: "early" — when; time outside the language. (Part of the reported content; still binned as time.)
3. s2: "In it" — hmm, does this need binning? It's just a locator. The attribution... I decided not to bin the "had written that" as attribution since I recorded the writing as an actual fact and the content as TOLD. But the "that X" reported clause — the fact that it's reported is captured by TOLD standing. Do I need a bin entry for the attribution? The rule "Who believes... Send the attribution to the bin" — here the harbourmaster's writing is an actual event, not just an attribution, so I kept it. The reported content is TOLD. I think no bin entry needed for "the harbourmaster had written that". Hmm, but to be safe, maybe a bin entry noting that the trawler/tide claims are the log's, not the narrator's? The TOLD standing handles that. I'll skip.

Hmm, wait. Actually, let me reconsider. In T10D, "The account says" was binned with the reason that it scopes contents to account_world, and the account's existence was GIVEN. Here I'm doing slightly differently: the harbourmaster's writing is recorded as an actual fact (since it's a real past event, "had written"), and the content is TOLD. Both approaches are defensible. I'll keep mine but add a bin entry? No — the bin is for things with no form. The writing has a form (fact). OK.

4. s3: "who had crewed the boat" — identity of the crew not given; identity is outside the language. Also "the boat" → merged with trawler (reading recorded).
5. s3: "how much the catch had weighed" — quantity/amount, outside the language.
6. s4: "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that" — attribution of the content to the clerk's count; content placed in clerk_world.
7. s4: "six" — number, outside the language.
8. s4: "before noon" — when, outside the language.
9. s5: "The rest of the entry" — portion/quantity; also entry read as the log (reading recorded). Hmm — "the rest of" is the portion; the entry=log merge is a reading. Bin: "the rest of" — a portion of the entry, quantities outside the language.
10. s5: "due" — owed/scheduled; obligation/time, outside the language.
11. s5: "on the north pier" — location, outside the language.

Also s1: "read through" — "through" is part of the verb; fine. "the dockyard" — a place; the clerk is the dockyard clerk — "dockyard" as adjective of origin; not needed. Hmm, "dockyard" — location-ish. It's a descriptor of the clerk. I'll leave it in the kind: clerk is a dockyard clerk? kind(clerk, dockyard_clerk)? Or kind(clerk, clerk). The text: "The dockyard clerk" — the clerk works at the dockyard. I'll use kind(clerk, clerk) and not encode dockyard (it's a place descriptor, minor). Hmm, or kind(clerk, dockyard_clerk). Let me use kind(clerk, clerk) — plain. Actually "dockyard clerk" is the role; kind(clerk, dockyard_clerk) is more faithful. But then no other line speaks of dockyard_clerk. Either is fine. I'll use kind(clerk, clerk) for simplicity... hmm, but faithfulness. Let me do kind(clerk, dockyard_clerk). Eh. Actually the "kind" is checked wherever another line speaks about that kind — no other line does. I'll go with kind(clerk, clerk) and mention dockyard is dropped? No, don't overthink. kind(clerk, clerk). Hmm... The clerk is a person. Should kind be "person"? The response class list maps persons to heavy-and-standing, but we write not_stated anyway. Kind: "clerk". OK.

Wait, also: "harbourmaster" — kind(harbourmaster, harbourmaster). And "log" — kind(log, log). Could be kind(log, log_book)? "log" is fine.

Also the trawler: kind(trawler, trawler). The bar: kind(bar, sandbar)? The text says "the bar" — at a harbour, a sandbar. kind(bar, bar). I'll use kind(bar, bar) — plain, no guessing. Tide: kind(tide, tide). Boats: kind(boats, boat). Catch: kind(catch, catch).

Now — do I need thing lines for "the bar" and "the tide"? They're in the told-world facts (crossed(trawler, bar), turned(tide)). Rule 3: every thing in a happening must have a thing line. crossed/turned are facts, not happenings (no shape verbs). Hmm — but "the trawler crossed the bar" is arguably a happening (DOER VERB THING): trawler CROSS bar. Cross has no shape → not checked. Should I write it as a happening or a fact? T10D wrote "window was opened" as a fact because the opener was unnamed. Here the doer (trawler) is named. "The trawler crossed the bar" — DOER trawler VERB cross THING bar. As a happening: trawler CROSS bar. The checker would say "not checked" (verb not in shape book). As a fact: holds(crossed(trawler, bar)).

The task says: "Happenings. Write who did what to what, and which way, using the text's own verb." So happenings are for doings. Crossing is a doing. But the verb shape book doesn't have cross. The language says a verb missing from the shape book is reported "not checked" and counted — that's for happenings. So writing it as a happening is legitimate and gets "not checked". Hmm, but T10D's precedent turned "opening the window" into a fact. That was because the opener was unnamed (no doer). Here we have a doer.

Decision: write "the trawler crossed the bar" as a happening: "cross1: trawler CROSS bar" — TOLD in log_world. And note cross has no shape (verbs_without_shape). Hmm, but then the BECAUSE claim points at... claim_because needs fact terms: claim_because(because, crossed(trawler, bar), turned(tide)). If the crossing is a happening, its result... hmm. The BECAUSE test for happening+result uses the laws. But these are shapeless verbs — the laws can't run.

Simpler and consistent with T10D: write both as facts in the told world, and the BECAUSE points at the facts. T10D did exactly this: opening as fact, dry as fact, because as claim_because between facts. I'll follow T10D: facts + claim_because. 

Hmm, but the task's translator rules say "Write who did what to what... using the text's own verb" for happenings. And "Every thing in a happening must have a thing line". If I write everything as facts, thing lines are still good practice (I'll include them; T10D included thing lines for window and letter even though they were in facts).

OK here's my plan — follow T10D's shapes closely. Things get kind+body clauses; facts get holds(...); the BECAUSE gets claim_between facts.

Now, the "not stated" body for things: the guide says body(<thing>, not_stated). For all things. Good.

Now let me also double check sentence 1's reading fact: holds(read(clerk, log)). And sentence 2's writing fact: holds(wrote(harbourmaster, log)). Hmm — "In it, the harbourmaster had written that..." — the writing is in the log. Since the log is the harbourmaster's log and he wrote in it, holds(wrote(harbourmaster, log)) — hmm, "wrote the log" vs "wrote in the log". Let me use holds(wrote_in(harbourmaster, log)) — no wait, keep terms simple: wrote(harbourmaster, log). The line text will say "the harbourmaster wrote in the log". Fine.

Hmm, actually — one concern: is recording the writing as CLAIMED double-asserting with the TOLD content? No: the writing event is actual; the content is told. Good.

Now the worlds: log_world ("what the log says") and clerk_world ("what the clerk noted"). 

Wait — should sentence 4's content really be TOLD? Let me re-read the rule: "What a story, a report, a note or a dream says is TOLD, in a named world of its own." The clerk's noting is... the clerk's observation. The task rule: "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world." The clerk noted → the content is in the clerk's world. OK, TOLD in clerk_world. 

Hmm, but hold on — is "noted" an attribution of belief? "She noted that six boats had tied up" — she observed. It's a fact-report sourced to her count. I think TOLD in clerk_world is the rule-following reading. But an alternative: the narrator asserts six boats tied up (CLAIMED), with the count as source. Hmm. The safer choice per the rules: TOLD. But then the actual ledger claims nothing about boats tying up — is that a loss? The rules explicitly accept this (attribution → bin, content → TOLD). Going with TOLD.

Hmm, wait, actually let me reconsider. "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that six boats had tied up before noon." Compare: "The clerk counted six boats." The noting is her act. The content "six boats had tied up before noon" is what she noted. In the T10D pattern, "The account says X" → X in account_world. So "The clerk noted X" → X in clerk_world. Yes. TOLD. And bin the attribution phrase.

But hmm — one more consideration: the clerk's noting is an actual event (like the harbourmaster's writing, which I recorded as an actual fact). Should I record "the clerk noted the boat count" as an actual fact too? For symmetry with s2? In s2 I recorded the writing because "had written" is a doing with a doer and object. In s4, "noted" is also a doing: the clerk noted something. Hmm. If I record holds(noted(clerk, tied_up(boats))) in the actual ledger AND holds(tied_up(boats)) in clerk_world — that's fine and symmetric. But the task rule says send the attribution to the bin. The attribution is "from her own count" (the source). Hmm.

Let me decide: bin the whole attribution phrase "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that" with the reason that it scopes the content to clerk_world (like T10D did with "The account says"). Don't write a separate noting fact. This matches the task rule most directly. The clerk thing line still exists (from s1). OK.

Hmm, but wait — then sentence 4 contributes only: bin entry + TOLD lines in clerk_world. And the clerk's own count — binned. Fine.

Now, is there a "noted" in the actual ledger at all? No. OK.

Now let me reconsider sentence 2's "In it" and the writing fact once more. If I bin the attribution for s4 but record the writing for s2 — inconsistent? The difference: s2's "had written" is a past event with a doer and an object (the harbourmaster wrote in the log); s4's "noted... from her own count" is an attribution of observation. Hmm, they're actually parallel: "the harbourmaster had written that X" / "the clerk noted that Y". 

Ugh. For consistency, maybe I should treat both the same way. Options:
(a) Record both as actual facts (wrote, noted) + TOLD contents.
(b) Bin both attributions + TOLD contents.

T10D does (b) for "the account says". But "says" is present-tense framing, not an event. Here both are past-tense events.

Hmm. The task rule "Who believes, wants or concludes what. Send the attribution to the bin, and write the content as TOLD in that person's world" — this is about beliefs/wants/conclusions. "Noted from her own count" is a conclusion/observation → bin the attribution. "Had written" is not a belief — it's an act of writing. The reported content of a written log is TOLD (story/report/note). So: s2: writing is an actual fact; content TOLD in log_world. s4: noting is an attribution of observation → bin; content TOLD in clerk_world.

Hmm, but "noted" is also an act... I'll go with: s4's attribution binned (following the belief rule, since "noted from her own count" is her concluding from a count), s2's writing recorded as actual (it's a physical-ish act, and the log is a thing). I'll note this distinction in "Readings I chose". Actually, to be even more careful: maybe I should ALSO record the clerk's noting as an actual fact? No — keep it binned per the rule. The bin entry retains it.

Hmm, hmm. Actually, you know what — let me record the clerk's noting as an actual fact too, for symmetry and completeness: holds(noted(clerk, boat_count))? That seems to add little. And the rule says bin it. I'll bin it. Final.

Now let me reconsider: is there anything about "the rest of the entry" that needs a thing line for "entry"? I merged entry=log. The log already has a thing line. Good. Record the merge in readings.

Also "the north pier" — binned as location. No thing line for pier (locations outside the language). Good.

Now the counts:
Lines said: let me count.
1. clerk thing (said, s1)
2. harbourmaster thing (said, s1)
3. log thing (said, s1)
4. read fact (said, s1)
5. wrote fact (said, s2)
6. trawler thing (said, s2, TOLD)
7. bar thing (said, s2, TOLD)
8. tide thing (said, s2, TOLD)
9. crossed fact (said, s2, TOLD)
10. turned fact (said, s2, TOLD)
11. because (said, s2, TOLD)
12. catch thing (said, s3, GIVEN)
13. lists crew (said, s3)
14. lists weight (said, s3)
15. boats thing (said, s4, TOLD)
16. tied up fact (said, s4, TOLD)
17. concerns repairs (said, s5)

All said, 0 filled in, 0 usual case. Hmm — no filled-in lines? The task expects filled-in marks where I add things. Do I add anything? The boat=trawler merge is a reading (recorded in readings, not a line). The entry=log merge is a reading. No missing steps filled in. Hmm, should the BECAUSE line be "filled in"? No — "because" is said (the text says "because the tide had turned"). 

Hmm, what about the thing lines' standing — are they "said"? Yes, the text mentions these things.

Should any line be "filled in"? Let me check: the BECAUSE claim in log_world — the text says "the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned" — the because is said. OK, 0 filled in. That's fine — this text is mostly report-with-attribution, and the translator's additions are minimal. Hmm, but wait — maybe the listing facts (s3) involve a filled-in step? "The log went on to list who had crewed the boat and how much the catch had weighed" → "the log lists the trawler's crew" — the boat→trawler identification is my reading. Should those lines be "filled in" then? The reading is recorded in readings_chosen; the line content itself is said modulo the merge. Hmm. Rule 15: "Where part was said and part is your choice, split the line if you can. If you cannot, mark the whole line filled in and say in it which part you added." The boat=trawler identification is my choice within the line. I could mark the crew-listing line "filled in" with a note "(boat read as the trawler)". Or keep "said" and record the reading. Since the reading is recorded in readings_chosen and doesn't change the line's content beyond naming, I think "said" is defensible... but to be safe, mark it "filled in" with the note? Hmm. The line "the log lists the trawler's crew" — the "trawler" part is my identification. Per rule 15, mark the whole line filled in and say which part I added. Hmm, but that feels heavy. Alternatively, name the thing "boat" instead of "trawler" and keep them separate — then no reading needed, line is said. 

Ugh, the boat/trawler question again. Let me settle definitively: KEEP THEM SEPARATE. "the boat" is its own thing (a boat mentioned in the log's crew list). Then: kind(boat, boat) TOLD in log_world? Hmm, but the crew listing is in the actual ledger (CLAIMED fact "the log lists the boat's crew")... 

OK here's the thing — the crew listing fact references the boat. If the boat is a thing in log_world but the listing fact is actual, there's a cross-world reference. Messy. 

Alternative: make sentence 3's listing facts TOLD in log_world too! "The log went on to list who had crewed the boat and how much the catch had weighed" — the listed items are the log's content → TOLD in log_world: "the boat was crewed" and "the catch weighed [amount]". But the identities/amounts are unknown... In log_world: holds(crewed(boat)) (someone crewed it — identity unknown, binned) and holds(weighed(catch)) (amount unknown, binned). Hmm, that's actually clean: the log's world contains a crewed boat and a weighed catch; the who and how-much are outside the language → bin.

But then the actual ledger loses the "the log lists..." assertion. Is that a loss? The narrator's assertion that the log lists these things — that's about the log's content, which is the world. Hmm.

Hmm, hmm. Let me think about which is more faithful to the commitments:
- The narrator commits to: the log contains a crew list for the boat, and the log contains the catch's weight. That's an actual commitment about the log.
- The log's world contains: the boat was crewed by [unnamed people]; the catch weighed [unknown amount].

Both are commitments. The first is actual (CLAIMED); the second is told. I could write both! The listing facts (actual, CLAIMED) and the told-world facts (boat crewed, catch weighed). But the told-world facts have no content beyond "crewed" and "weighed" — with who/how-much binned. Is holds(crewed(boat)) meaningful? It says the boat was crewed. That's a commitment of the log's content. OK.

Hmm, this is getting complicated. Let me simplify and be decisive:

FINAL PLAN for s3:
- Actual: two CLAIMED facts: the log lists the boat's crew; the log lists the catch's weight. (Using "boat" as its own thing, no merge with trawler.)
- Thing lines: boat (TOLD in log_world? or actual?). The boat appears in the log's listed content. Since the listing fact is actual and references the boat, give the boat an actual thing line: kind(boat, boat), body not stated, standing GIVEN (s3, it's part of the listed content), mark said. Hmm — but the boat is a thing in the log's world... 

You know what? The cleanest resolution: the boat IS the trawler (natural reading), one name "trawler", and mark the crew-listing line "filled in" noting the identification. No wait...

OK let me just think about which produces the best ledger, and stop dithering.

Option A: boat = trawler (one thing, "trawler", TOLD in log_world). s3 lines: actual CLAIMED facts "the log lists the trawler's crew" and "the log lists the catch's weight", marked "filled in" (because boat→trawler is my reading) or "said". The trawler thing line lives in log_world; the actual listing fact references trawler — cross-world reference again! Because the listing fact is actual but trawler is a told-world thing. Hmm. Unless the trawler thing line is actual... but the trawler only appears inside the log's reported content (s2). Its existence is part of what the log says → TOLD.

Option B: boat separate from trawler. boat thing line: where? The boat appears in "who had crewed the boat" — the log's listed content. So boat is also a log-world thing → TOLD in log_world. Same cross-world issue with the actual listing fact.

The cross-world issue arises because I insist on making the listing facts actual. Resolution: make the s3 listing facts TOLD in log_world as well! I.e., sentence 3's content is also part of what the log says:
- [TOLD in log_world] the log lists the boat's crew — hmm, no. The narrator says the log lists these; that's about the actual log. 

ALTERNATIVE resolution: don't write "the log lists X" facts at all. Instead, in log_world, write what the log's listing implies: the boat was crewed (by unnamed crew) and the catch was weighed (unknown amount). And bin the who/how-much. Then sentence 3's actual-ledger presence is just the bin entries. Hmm, but then "The log went on to list" — the listing act — is only in the bin. Is that OK? The bin entry would be: "who had crewed the boat and how much the catch had weighed — the listed contents are identities and a quantity, both outside the language; the log's world has a crewed boat and a weighed catch with no values given."

Hmm, that loses the commitment that the log contains this info. But honestly, the values are the whole content, and they're outside the language. 

Hmm, hmm. Let me look at the task rules again: "Every sentence of the text appears in the ledger, in the bin, or both." So binning s3's content is acceptable. But the listing act itself — "The log went on to list" — is that binned or lined? If I bin the whole sentence (contents + listing), the sentence appears in the bin. OK per the rules. But is it better to line the listing? 

I think a middle path is best and most faithful:
- Actual CLAIMED fact (said, s3): the log lists the trawler's crew. Wait no, boat.

ARGH. OK. Decision time. I'm going with:

**Sentence 3**: The log's listed contents are (a) crew identities, (b) catch weight amount. Both are outside the language (identity, quantity). I write in log_world (TOLD): "the trawler was crewed" and "the catch was weighed" — no wait, "the catch had weighed [something]".

Hmm, no. Let me go with the actual-facts approach and solve the cross-world issue by giving the boat/catch thing lines in the ACTUAL ledger as GIVEN (they're mentioned by the narrator in s3, even though within listed content). Actually — is that so bad? The narrator mentions the boat and the catch; they're things in the world of the text (the actual ledger). The trawler, bar, tide are things only inside the log's reported statement → TOLD. The boat and catch are mentioned by the narrator directly (s3 is not reported speech — it's the narrator's summary) → actual GIVEN thing lines. 

YES. That's the distinction: s2 is reported speech ("had written that") → contents TOLD. s3 is the narrator's own summary → things and facts CLAIMED/GIVEN in the actual ledger. The boat and catch are the narrator's mentions, so actual thing lines (GIVEN, since they're in the subordinate interrogative clauses). And the listing facts are CLAIMED.

And the boat vs trawler: the narrator's "the boat" in s3 — is it the same as the log's "the trawler" in s2? Probably, but s3 is the narrator's summary of the log's content; "the boat" could be the narrator's back-reference to the trawler. I'll keep them separate (boat ≠ trawler) and record in readings that they may be the same vessel, kept apart because s2 is the log's voice and s3 the narrator's. Actually hmm — if they're the same, keeping two names violates one-name-one-thing. If they're different, merging violates it. The text doesn't say they're the same. Keeping apart is the conservative choice; record the reading. FINAL: separate.

So s3:
- boat thing line: [GIVEN] boat is a boat; response not stated (said, s3).
- catch thing line: [GIVEN] catch is a catch; response not stated (said, s3).
- listing fact 1: [CLAIMED] the log lists the boat's crew (said, s3). holds(lists(log, crew_of(boat))).
- listing fact 2: [CLAIMED] the log lists the catch's weight (said, s3). holds(lists(log, weight_of(catch))).
- Bin: "who had crewed the boat" — the crew's identities are not given; identity is outside the language.
- Bin: "how much the catch had weighed" — the amount is a quantity, outside the language.

Good, that works and everything is consistent. The crew_of(boat) and weight_of(catch) terms are descriptions, not things needing kind lines. Hmm, "crew" — should crew be a thing? It's in a fact, not a happening. Skip.

Now s5 similarly: the narrator's summary → actual CLAIMED fact: the log concerns repairs. And bin "the rest of the entry" (portion — but wait, if entry=log, "the rest of the log" is a portion of the log → quantity/portion, outside), "due" (obligation/time), "on the north pier" (location).

Hmm, "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier" — with entry=log: "the rest of the log concerned repairs..." The portion restriction → bin. The line: the log concerns repairs. Hmm, but that over-claims (the whole log vs the rest). The bin note handles it. Alternatively write the fact as "the log concerns repairs on the north pier" with location binned... no, location is binned. So: holds(concerns(log, repairs)). The line text: "the log concerns repairs (the rest of the entry; due on the north pier)". Hmm, line text should be the plain line: "[CLAIMED] the log concerns repairs". And the bin carries the rest.

Hmm, wait — actually, should I even merge entry with log? Now that s3's boat is separate from s2's trawler, maybe entry should be separate from log too, for the same reason (different voice/role). The entry: "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier." The entry is a thing (a log entry). Its relation to the log is unstated (though implied). If I keep entry separate: thing line [GIVEN] entry is an entry (s5); fact [CLAIMED] the entry concerns repairs (s5). And bin "the rest of" (portion), "due", "on the north pier". This avoids the over-claim on the log! And it's consistent with keeping boat≠trawler. 

Hmm, but is the entry a new thing or the log? "The dockyard clerk read through the harbourmaster's log for the week. In it, the harbourmaster had written that... The log went on to list... The rest of the entry concerned..." — the entry is clearly the week's log entry = the log. But keeping separate is harmless and avoids over-claiming. The checker might flag nothing either way. 

Decision: keep "entry" separate from "log" (conservative, avoids over-claim, consistent with boat≠trawler). Record both readings in "Readings I chose". FINAL.

Wait, but then the entry floats with no link to the log. Is that a problem? The checker checks for missing links... A missing link would be flagged as a "jump" only in arguments (BECAUSE chains). A floating thing+fact isn't an argument. Fine.

Hmm, although — "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier" — if entry is separate, the fact is "the entry concerns repairs". With "the rest of" binned (portion). OK.

Hmm, one more: should s5's fact be TOLD in a world? "The entry concerned repairs" — the narrator's statement about the entry's subject. Not reported speech. CLAIMED. OK.

Now let me also double-check s1's "read through" — the clerk read through the log. Fact: holds(read(clerk, log)). Hmm, or happening? Following T10D (eventive fact for shapeless verbs), fact. But here the doer IS named (clerk). Hmm. "Read" — is reading something you do to a thing? Yes, but it's not physical (no press/release). The shape book has no "read". As a happening it'd be "not checked". As a fact it's just a fact. 

The task rules: "Happenings. Write who did what to what, and which way, using the text's own verb." This suggests writing "clerk READ log" as a happening. But T10D's precedent (from the actual examples) writes eventive content as facts when the verb has no shape. Hmm, T10D's reason was the unnamed opener. Here the doer is named.

Let me look at example_A: "The tomato plants on the balcony died because of the cold." — they wrote facts (dies, reached) and a claim_because, not happenings. And "move the thermometer" was a plan. So the examples lean toward facts for non-shape verbs.

I'll write s1 as a fact: holds(read(clerk, log)). And note in verbs_without_shape? The gauge's verbs_without_shape in T10D listed "open" with coverage "eventive Fact because opener is unnamed; open has no shape". So verbs_without_shape lists verbs used in fact form. I'll list "read", "write"/"wrote", "cross", "turn", "tie up", "list", "concern" — hmm, that's a lot. T10D listed only the one eventive verb. Let me list the ones that are eventive (doings) written as facts: read (s1), wrote (s2), crossed (s2), turned (s2), tied up (s4). Listing/list and concern are stative, not eventive — skip those. Hmm, the gauge field is optional-ish (examples have it). I'll include a translation_gauge with the count and verbs_without_shape for the eventive ones.

Actually, the encoding guide doesn't require translation_gauge — T10D has it, P14 doesn't, example_A doesn't (in JSON). The required fields are: paragraph, whose, sentences, bin, leftover, whatifs, lines, words_split, readings_chosen. I'll include the required ones plus maybe names. Let me keep it focused: required fields only, plus maybe translation_gauge for the count. The task's section 5 asks for "The count: lines said, lines filled in, lines usual case, sentences that lost something to the bin." I'll print that as section 5 of the output and also could put it in the JSON. The guide says every field required unless optional; translation_gauge isn't in the guide's schema. I'll skip it in JSON and put the count in the printed section 5. Hmm, but T10D includes it... The guide's schema is what the driver reads. I'll include the required fields only. Actually, let me include "names" too? T10D has it; the guide doesn't list it. Skip. Keep to the guide's schema exactly.

Wait, the guide's schema: paragraph, whose, sentences, bin, leftover, whatifs, lines, words_split, readings_chosen. OK.

Now — whatifs: none in this text. Empty array. Hmm, is there a what-if? "remove the structure and the spread stops" was P14's. Here, no counterfactual. Empty.

Now let me write the Prolog clauses.

Lines (ids): 
- clerk (thing, CLAIMED, said, s1): kind(clerk, clerk) :- line(clerk). body(clerk, not_stated) :- line(clerk).
- harbourmaster (thing, GIVEN, said, s1): kind(harbourmaster, harbourmaster) :- line(harbourmaster). body(harbourmaster, not_stated) :- line(harbourmaster).
- log (thing, CLAIMED, said, s1): kind(log, log) :- line(log). body(log, not_stated) :- line(log).
- read1 (fact, CLAIMED, said, s1): holds(read(clerk, log)) :- line(read1).
- wrote1 (fact, CLAIMED, said, s2): holds(wrote(harbourmaster, log)) :- line(wrote1).
- trawler (thing, TOLD log_world, said, s2): kind(trawler, trawler) :- line(trawler). body(trawler, not_stated) :- line(trawler). With case: log_world, case_kind: told.
- bar (thing, TOLD log_world, said, s2): kind(bar, bar) :- line(bar). body(bar, not_stated) :- line(bar).
- tide (thing, TOLD log_world, said, s2): kind(tide, tide) :- line(tide). body(tide, not_stated) :- line(tide).
- crossed (fact, TOLD log_world, said, s2): holds(crossed(trawler, bar)) :- line(crossed).
- turned (fact, TOLD log_world, said, s2): holds(turned(tide)) :- line(turned).
- because1 (BECAUSE, TOLD log_world, said, s2): claim_because(because1, crossed(trawler, bar), turned(tide)) :- line(because1).
- boat (thing, GIVEN, said, s3): kind(boat, boat) :- line(boat). body(boat, not_stated) :- line(boat).
- catch (thing, GIVEN, said, s3): kind(catch, catch) :- body... kind(catch, catch) :- line(catch). body(catch, not_stated) :- line(catch).
- lists_crew (fact, CLAIMED, said, s3): holds(lists(log, crew_of(boat))) :- line(lists_crew).
- lists_weight (fact, CLAIMED, said, s3): holds(lists(log, weight_of(catch))) :- line(lists_weight).
- boats (thing, TOLD clerk_world, said, s4): kind(boats, boat) :- line(boats). body(boats, not_stated) :- line(boats).
- tied (fact, TOLD clerk_world, said, s4): holds(tied_up(boats)) :- line(tied).
- entry (thing, GIVEN, said, s5): kind(entry, entry) :- line(entry). body(entry, not_stated) :- line(entry).
- concerns (fact, CLAIMED, said, s5): holds(concerns(entry, repairs)) :- line(concerns).

Count: 19 lines, all said, 0 filled in, 0 usual case.

Hmm, wait — should any be "filled in"? Let me reconsider. The task says mark every line you add as filled in/usual case. I've added nothing beyond what's said... except the readings (boat≠trawler, entry≠log — these are non-additions). The thing lines' "not stated" bodies are said (the text doesn't state, and I write not stated — that's per rule 3, mark said? The body not_stated is a statement that the text doesn't say — it's not "filled in". In T10D, body(letter, not_stated) was marked "said". OK.)

Hmm, what about the "crossed the bar" — is there a missing step? "the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned" — the tide turning enabling the crossing — no missing step needed; the BECAUSE is stated. OK.

What about sentence 4's TOLD content "boats tied up" — from "six boats had tied up before noon" with six and before-noon binned. The line holds(tied_up(boats)) — said. OK.

So 0 filled in, 0 usual case. Fine — this is a simple report text.

Hmm, wait. Let me reconsider whether the clerk_world treatment loses the narrator's endorsement... The task's trap list doesn't cover this. The rules are clear: attribution → bin, content → TOLD. OK.

Hmm, one more consideration on s4: "from her own count" — the count is the clerk's. Binned with the attribution. Good.

Now sentences that lost something to the bin: s1 (for the week), s2 (early), s3 (who..., how much...), s4 (six, before noon, the attribution), s5 (the rest of, due, on the north pier). So all 5 sentences lost something. Count: 5.

Hmm, s1: "for the week" — the log for the week. Is "for the week" really bin-worthy? It's a time restriction (which week). Time is outside the language ("When, beyond the order of a chain and the stage named in a fact"). Yes, bin. So s1 lost something.

Bin entries (with sentence, words, reason):
1. s1, "for the week" — when; time beyond order and stage is outside the language.
2. s2, "early" — when; the crossing's timing is outside the language. (Inside the reported content, still a time claim.)
3. s3, "who had crewed the boat" — the crew's identities are not given; identity is outside the language.
4. s3, "how much the catch had weighed" — the amount is a quantity; quantities are outside the language.
5. s4, "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that" — attribution of the content to the clerk and her count; the content is placed in clerk_world and is not asserted in the actual ledger.
6. s4, "six" — number; outside the language.
7. s4, "before noon" — when; outside the language.
8. s5, "The rest of" — a portion of the entry; portions/quantities are outside the language.
9. s5, "due" — owed or scheduled; obligation and scheduling are outside the language.
10. s5, "on the north pier" — where; location is outside the language.

leftover strings matching these.

words_split: none? Hmm — "log" appears as the harbourmaster's log (the record) — one sense. "entry" — the log entry. "bar" — the sandbar; no other sense. "catch" — the fish catch; no other sense. "tide" — one sense. No splits. Hmm, "the harbourmaster's log" vs "The log went on to list" — same log. "the entry" — I kept separate. No word with two senses. words_split: [].

Hmm, wait — "noted" (s4) — the clerk noted. One sense. OK, empty.

readings_chosen:
1. Sentence 2: "the harbourmaster had written that..." — open readings: the writing is an actual past event, or merely the framing of reported content (as with "the account says"). Chosen: the writing is an actual event (CLAIMED fact) while its content is TOLD in log_world; the narrator endorses the writing, not the trawler claim.
2. Sentence 2: "because the tide had turned" — open: the causal claim is the log's/harbourmaster's, or the narrator's. Chosen: the log's — the BECAUSE is TOLD in log_world.
3. Sentence 3: "the boat" — open: the same vessel as the trawler of sentence 2, or another boat. Chosen: kept apart as its own thing, because sentence 2 is the log's reported content and sentence 3 the narrator's summary, and the text does not say they are the same.
4. Sentence 3: "The log went on to list" — open: the listed items are the log's content (TOLD) or the narrator's commitment about the log (CLAIMED). Chosen: the narrator's summary, so CLAIMED facts about the log, with the values (who, how much) binned.
5. Sentence 4: "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that six boats had tied up before noon" — open: the narrator asserts the tying-up, or only the clerk's noting of it. Chosen: the clerk's noting — attribution binned, content TOLD in clerk_world.
6. Sentence 5: "the entry" — open: the same record as the log, or a separate entry. Chosen: kept apart as its own thing, so that only the entry, not the whole log, is said to concern repairs.
7. Sentence 1/2 verbs: "read", "wrote", "crossed", "turned", "tied up" have no shape in the shape book; chosen to write them as eventive facts rather than happenings, so the checker reports no unchecked physical verb. Hmm — actually it'd report "not checked" for happenings; as facts, no shape query. Let me phrase: chosen to write them as facts (following the eventive-fact precedent), since these verbs have no press/release/hold shape.

Also maybe: sentence 2 "In it" — the writing is in the log; chosen to record the harbourmaster as writing the log. Covered by reading 1.

Now the printed output format:

**1. The ledger** — table with Number | Standing | Content | Source mark | Sentence.

Wait, the columns: "Number | Standing | Content | Source mark | Sentence." OK.

**2. The bin** — list.
**3. Words I split** — list.
**4. Readings I chose** — list.
**5. The count.**
Then the JSON block, then TRANSLATION COMPLETE.

Wait — the task says "print exactly what the task and the guide ask for, ending with the JSON block and then the words TRANSLATION COMPLETE." So: five sections, then JSON, then TRANSLATION COMPLETE. The task's "Print your output in exactly this form" lists 1-5 and "Close with: TRANSLATION COMPLETE. Then wait." The guide says after the five sections, print the JSON. So order: sections 1-5, JSON block, TRANSLATION COMPLETE.

Also the PARKED list — "Judgements about whether the writer's reasoning is good... go in a PARKED list at the very end." The text has no argument to judge; PARKED can be empty or omitted. I'll include a brief PARKED line? The task says it goes at the very end, one line each. Nothing to park. I'll note "PARKED: nothing." Hmm, or just omit. I'll include a short "PARKED: (nothing to park)" before the JSON? Hmm — "at the very end" — after the JSON? The JSON must be the last thing before TRANSLATION COMPLETE. I'll put PARKED (empty) right after section 5, before the JSON. Actually the task says PARKED at the very end... but the guide says the JSON block is last. I'll put a one-line PARKED note after section 5 and before the JSON. Keep it minimal: "PARKED: nothing — the text reports, it does not argue."

Hmm, is there anything to park? The reasoning: "the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned" — is that good reasoning? A tide turning enabling a bar crossing is plausible. But judgements go to PARKED. I could park: "The tide's turn is a plausible cause for crossing a bar, but whether it explains the earliness is not something the ledger checks." Eh — one line. Let me add one parked line about the BECAUSE inside the told world resting on an unstated general rule (tide turn lets a trawler cross a bar). Actually that's a checker-type observation, not a judgement about reasoning quality. The task says PARKED is for judgements about whether the writer's reasoning is good, and ideas for procedures etc. I'll park one line: the tide-turn→crossing link rests on seamanship the ledger cannot check. Fine, one line.

Now, let me write out the ledger table rows:

| Number | Standing | Content | Source mark | Sentence |
| 1 | CLAIMED | clerk is a clerk; it answers a press not stated | said | 1 |
| 2 | GIVEN | harbourmaster is a harbourmaster; it answers a press not stated | said | 1 |
| 3 | CLAIMED | log is a log; it answers a press not stated | said | 1 |
| 4 | CLAIMED | clerk read the log | said | 1 |
| 5 | CLAIMED | harbourmaster wrote the log | said | 2 |
| 6 | TOLD in world log_world | trawler is a trawler; it answers a press not stated | said | 2 |
| 7 | TOLD in world log_world | bar is a bar; it answers a press not stated | said | 2 |
| 8 | TOLD in world log_world | tide is a tide; it answers a press not stated | said | 2 |
| 9 | TOLD in world log_world | trawler crossed the bar | said | 2 |
| 10 | TOLD in world log_world | tide turned | said | 2 |
| 11 | TOLD in world log_world | line 9 BECAUSE line 10 | said | 2 |
| 12 | GIVEN | boat is a boat; it answers a press not stated | said | 3 |
| 13 | GIVEN | catch is a catch; it answers a press not stated | said | 3 |
| 14 | CLAIMED | log lists the boat's crew | said | 3 |
| 15 | CLAIMED | log lists the catch's weight | said | 3 |
| 16 | TOLD in world clerk_world | boats are boats; they answer a press not stated | said | 4 |
| 17 | TOLD in world clerk_world | boats tied up | said | 4 |
| 18 | GIVEN | entry is an entry; it answers a press not stated | said | 5 |
| 19 | CLAIMED | entry concerns repairs | said | 5 |

Hmm — "it answers a press not stated" — the language's thing line: "NAME is a KIND; it answers a press as one of the six response classes". Since not stated, write "not stated". In the table: "clerk is a clerk; response to a press not stated".

Wait, the pronoun for boats: "they". Fine.

Hmm, line 5: "harbourmaster wrote the log" — the text says "In it, the harbourmaster had written that..." — wrote in the log. My line text: "harbourmaster wrote in the log". The Prolog: holds(wrote(harbourmaster, log)). OK.

Line 11: "line 9 BECAUSE line 10" — points at lines 9 and 10. Good.

Now, hmm, one thing: should line 5 (wrote) be CLAIMED? "In it, the harbourmaster had written that the trawler crossed..." — the main clause is "the harbourmaster had written [that X]". The writing is the main clause → CLAIMED. The reported content → TOLD. Good.

Also — should I add a GIVEN line that the log is the harbourmaster's? "the harbourmaster's log" — possessive. kind(log, log) covers the log; the possessive is background. Skip (or bin? No — it's captured by the harbourmaster thing line and the writing fact). Fine.

Now the JSON. Let me write it carefully.

paragraph: "B11"
whose: "<my name>, under L82" — I'm... the model. I'll write "Claude, under L82" — hmm, the guide says "<your name, the model you are>, under L82". I'll put "Claude (Anthropic), under L82".

sentences: 1-5 verbatim.

bin: entries as above.
leftover: matching strings.
whatifs: [].
lines: as above with mark, sentence, standing, text, case/case_kind for TOLD lines, prolog_clauses.
words_split: [].
readings_chosen: the list.

Let me write the prolog clauses:

clerk: "kind(clerk, clerk) :- line(clerk).", "body(clerk, not_stated) :- line(clerk)."
harbourmaster: "kind(harbourmaster, harbourmaster) :- line(harbourmaster).", "body(harbourmaster, not_stated) :- line(harbourmaster)."
log: "kind(log, log) :- line(log).", "body(log, not_stated) :- line(log)."
read1: "holds(read(clerk, log)) :- line(read1)."
wrote1: "holds(wrote(harbourmaster, log)) :- line(wrote1)."
trawler: "kind(trawler, trawler) :- line(trawler).", "body(trawler, not_stated) :- line(trawler)."
bar: "kind(bar, bar) :- line(bar).", "body(bar, not_stated) :- line(bar)."
tide: "kind(tide, tide) :- line(tide).", "body(tide, not_stated) :- line(tide)."
crossed: "holds(crossed(trawler, bar)) :- line(crossed)."
turned: "holds(turned(tide)) :- line(turned)."
because1: "claim_because(because1, crossed(trawler, bar), turned(tide)) :- line(because1)."
boat: "kind(boat, boat) :- line(boat).", "body(boat, not_stated) :- line(boat)."
catch: "kind(catch, catch) :- line(catch).", "body(catch, not_stated) :- line(catch)."
lists_crew: "holds(lists(log, crew_of(boat))) :- line(lists_crew)."
lists_weight: "holds(lists(log, weight_of(catch))) :- line(lists_weight)."
boats: "kind(boats, boat) :- line(boats).", "body(boats, not_stated) :- line(boats)."
tied: "holds(tied_up(boats)) :- line(tied)."
entry: "kind(entry, entry) :- line(entry).", "body(entry, not_stated) :- line(entry)."
concerns: "holds(concerns(entry, repairs)) :- line(concerns)."

Check: claim_because's terms match holds terms: crossed(trawler, bar) ✓, turned(tide) ✓.

Line ids: short lowercase words: clerk, harbourmaster, log, read1, wrote1, trawler, bar, tide, crossed, turned, because1, boat, catch, lists_crew, lists_weight, boats, tied, entry, concerns. Good — no underscores+digits. Wait, "read1", "wrote1", "because1" end in digits but not underscore+digit. The trap says "Names that end in an underscore and a number" — read1 is fine.

Hmm, one issue: the table uses numbers 1-19 as "Number" column, but the JSON ids are words. The guide says line ids are short lowercase words; the table's Number column can be the same ids. Let me use the ids in the table's Number column for consistency (so pointing works: "line crossed BECAUSE line turned"). Actually the language example uses numbers (6 | CLAIMED | ...). But ids can be names. To keep table and JSON aligned, I'll use the ids in both. The "Number" column will hold the line id.

Hmm, the task says "Number the sentences" and "Every line gets all five parts: number...". The number is the line's id. Using words as ids is allowed ("or a short name such as p1 for a happening"). I'll use the word ids in the Number column.

Let me also double check the "Sentence" column: integer sentence number. Yes.

Standing values in JSON: "CLAIMED", "GIVEN", "TOLD in world log_world", "TOLD in world clerk_world". The guide: "standing": "CLAIMED" | "GIVEN" | "SUPPOSED in case <name>" | "TOLD in world <name>". Good.

case: "log_world" / "clerk_world", case_kind: "told".

Now the count section 5:
- lines said: 19
- lines filled in: 0
- lines usual case: 0
- sentences that lost something to the bin: 5 (all five)

Hmm, let me double check no sentence is fully in the ledger without bin loss. s1: "for the week" binned → lost. s2: "early" binned → lost. s3: two items binned → lost. s4: attribution, six, before noon binned → lost. s5: three items binned → lost. Yes, 5.

Also, should I mention verbs without shape? The task's section 5 doesn't ask for it. I'll mention in the count or readings. I'll add a note in section 5 or in readings. The guide's JSON doesn't require it. I'll add a line in section 5 noting verbs with no shape (read, write, cross, turn, tie up) written as eventive facts. Actually, let me put that in readings_chosen as one entry (it's a reading choice). Yes, I have reading 7 for that.

Hmm, also: should "tied up" be a happening? "boats tied up" — tying up is a doing (boats tied up [at the dock]). As TOLD fact holds(tied_up(boats)). Fine.

One more check — the "noted" in s4: I binned the attribution. But hmm, should the clerk's noting be recorded as an actual fact like the harbourmaster's writing? I decided no. Let me make sure the bin entry explains: "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that — the attribution scopes the content to clerk_world; the clerk's noting and her count are retained here and are not asserted as actual facts." Good.

Hmm, wait — actually, now I realize there might be an inconsistency worth noting: s2's "had written" recorded as actual, s4's "noted" binned. Let me make the readings explain: "had written" is an act with a doer and a thing written in; "noted from her own count" is an attribution of observation (who concluded what), which the rules send to the bin. I'll fold that into the readings. Good.

Now — one more scan of the text for anything missed:
"The dockyard clerk read through the harbourmaster's log for the week." — clerk (thing), log (thing), harbourmaster (thing), read (fact), "for the week" (bin). "dockyard" — descriptor of the clerk; dropped? It's a place. Hmm, "the dockyard clerk" — the clerk of the dockyard. I could bin "dockyard" as a place... it's part of the clerk's description. The kind is clerk; dockyard is where. Eh — I'll leave it in the kind: kind(clerk, dockyard_clerk)? Hmm. Or bin "dockyard"? Locations are outside the language. But "dockyard clerk" is a role, not a location claim. I'll use kind(clerk, clerk) and not bin dockyard separately (it's absorbed into the clerk's role; no commitment about the dockyard itself). Hmm, to be thorough, maybe bin "dockyard"? No — over-binning. The clerk's kind is clerk. Fine. Actually, let me use kind(clerk, dockyard_clerk) — it's the text's own compound and harmless. Hmm, but then "clerk is a dockyard clerk" — the response not stated. Either way. I'll go kind(clerk, clerk) — plain, per "plain lower-case words". The dockyard detail is not a commitment about a thing. OK.

"In it, the harbourmaster had written that the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned." — covered.
"The log went on to list who had crewed the boat and how much the catch had weighed." — covered. "went on" — just continuity, no content. "crewed" — the boat was crewed; the listing of crew. Covered by lists_crew + bin(who).
"The clerk also noted, from her own count, that six boats had tied up before noon." — covered.
"The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier." — covered.

Hmm, "repairs" — should it be a thing? holds(concerns(entry, repairs)) — repairs as a term. No thing line (not in a happening). OK. Hmm, but is that OK for the checker? The checker checks kinds where another line speaks about that kind — concerns(entry, repairs) doesn't invoke a kind. Fine.

Also "the north pier" binned — but should the pier be a thing? It's a location; locations are outside the language. The repairs are "on" the pier — a location relation. Bin. No thing line for pier. OK.

Now, hmm, let me reconsider whether "the log lists the boat's crew" and "the log lists the catch's weight" might be better as TOLD in log_world. The concern: these are facts about the log's content, and the log's content is what log_world is for. But the narrator asserts the listing (s3 is not reported speech). The commitment "the log contains a crew list and a catch weight" is the narrator's. I'll keep CLAIMED. The reading notes it.

Alright. Also — the JSON "sentences" must be verbatim. Let me copy them exactly:
1. "The dockyard clerk read through the harbourmaster's log for the week."
2. "In it, the harbourmaster had written that the trawler crossed the bar early because the tide had turned."
3. "The log went on to list who had crewed the boat and how much the catch had weighed."
4. "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that six boats had tied up before noon."
5. "The rest of the entry concerned repairs due on the north pier."

Good.

Now write the output. Sections:

**1. The ledger** — markdown table.

**2. The bin** — numbered list: words — reason.

**3. Words I split** — "None." (or empty). I'll write "None — no word carries two senses here."

**4. Readings I chose** — list.

**5. The count** — lines said 19, filled in 0, usual case 0, sentences losing to bin 5.

PARKED — one line.

Then the JSON block.

Then TRANSLATION COMPLETE.

Let me write the readings chosen entries (as strings in JSON):
1. "Sentence 2: 'the harbourmaster had written that' — open readings: the writing is an actual past event, or merely the framing of reported content (as 'the account says' is). Chosen: the writing is an actual CLAIMED fact (a doer, a thing written in), while the reported clause is TOLD in log_world; the narrator endorses the writing, not the trawler claim."
2. "Sentence 2: 'because the tide had turned' — open readings: the causal claim is the narrator's or the log's. Chosen: the log's — the BECAUSE is TOLD in log_world and points at the told facts crossed and turned."
3. "Sentence 3: 'the boat' — open readings: the same vessel as the trawler of sentence 2, or another boat. Chosen: kept apart as its own thing, because sentence 2 is the log's reported content and sentence 3 the narrator's summary, and the text does not say they are the same."
4. "Sentence 3: 'The log went on to list who... and how much...' — open readings: the listed items are the log's content (TOLD in log_world) or the narrator's commitment about the log (CLAIMED). Chosen: the narrator's summary — CLAIMED facts about what the log lists — with the values (who crewed, how much) sent to the bin as identity and quantity."
5. "Sentence 4: 'The clerk also noted, from her own count, that six boats had tied up before noon' — open readings: the narrator asserts the tying-up, or only the clerk's noting of it. Chosen: the clerk's noting — the attribution goes to the bin and the content is TOLD in clerk_world; unlike sentence 2's 'had written', 'noted from her own count' is an attribution of observation, not an act upon a thing."
6. "Sentence 5: 'the entry' — open readings: the same record as the log, or a separate entry. Chosen: kept apart as its own thing, so that only the entry, not the whole log, is said to concern repairs; 'the rest of' is binned as a portion."
7. "Sentences 1, 2 and 4: 'read', 'written/wrote', 'crossed', 'turned' and 'tied up' have no shape in the shape book (no press, release or hold). Chosen: written as eventive facts (holds(read(clerk, log)) and the like) after the precedent of the reported opening in the guide's first example, so that no unchecked physical-verb happening is put before the checker."

Good. Now the bin list in the printed section 2 (with sentence numbers):
1. Sentence 1: "for the week" — when; time beyond the order of a chain and the stage named in a fact is outside the language.
2. Sentence 2: "early" — when; the timing of the crossing is outside the language, and it belongs to the reported content anyway.
3. Sentence 3: "who had crewed the boat" — the crew's identities are not given; identity is outside the language.
4. Sentence 3: "how much the catch had weighed" — the amount is a quantity; quantities are outside the language.
5. Sentence 4: "The clerk also noted, from her own count, that" — attribution of the content to the clerk and her own count; the content is TOLD in clerk_world and is not asserted in the actual ledger.
6. Sentence 4: "six" — a number; numbers are outside the language.
7. Sentence 4: "before noon" — when; outside the language.
8. Sentence 5: "The rest of" — a portion of the entry; portions are outside the language.
9. Sentence 5: "due" — owed or scheduled; obligation and scheduling (may, must, should) are outside the language.
10. Sentence 5: "on the north pier" — where; location is outside the language.

leftover strings: "Sentence 1: for the week — when; ..." etc.

Now the table. Let me finalize the content wording for each line (plain language words):

1. clerk: "clerk is a clerk; it answers a press not stated" — hmm, "it" for a person. The language: "NAME is a KIND; it answers a press as one of the six response classes". I'll write "clerk is a clerk; response to a press not stated".
2. harbourmaster: "harbourmaster is a harbourmaster; response to a press not stated"
3. log: "log is a log; response to a press not stated"
4. read1: "clerk read the log"
5. wrote1: "harbourmaster wrote in the log"
6. trawler: "trawler is a trawler; response to a press not stated"
7. bar: "bar is a bar; response to a press not stated"
8. tide: "tide is a tide; response to a press not stated"
9. crossed: "trawler crossed the bar"
10. turned: "tide turned"
11. because1: "line crossed BECAUSE line turned"
12. boat: "boat is a boat; response to a press not stated"
13. catch: "catch is a catch; response to a press not stated"
14. lists_crew: "log lists the boat's crew"
15. lists_weight: "log lists the catch's weight"
16. boats: "boats are boats; response to a press not stated"
17. tied: "boats tied up"
18. entry: "entry is an entry; response to a press not stated"
19. concerns: "entry concerns repairs"

Standing column: CLAIMED / GIVEN / TOLD in world log_world / TOLD in world clerk_world.

Rows:
| clerk | CLAIMED | clerk is a clerk; response to a press not stated | said | 1 |
| harbourmaster | GIVEN | harbourmaster is a harbourmaster; response to a press not stated | said | 1 |
| log | CLAIMED | log is a log; response to a press not stated | said | 1 |
| read1 | CLAIMED | clerk read the log | said | 1 |
| wrote1 | CLAIMED | harbourmaster wrote in the log | said | 2 |
| trawler | TOLD in world log_world | trawler is a trawler; response to a press not stated | said | 2 |
| bar | TOLD in world log_world | bar is a bar; response to a press not stated | said | 2 |
| tide | TOLD in world log_world | tide is a tide; response to a press not stated | said | 2 |
| crossed | TOLD in world log_world | trawler crossed the bar | said | 2 |
| turned | TOLD in world log_world | tide turned | said | 2 |
| because1 | TOLD in world log_world | line crossed BECAUSE line turned | said | 2 |
| boat | GIVEN | boat is a boat; response to a press not stated | said | 3 |
| catch | GIVEN | catch is a catch; response to a press not stated | said | 3 |
| lists_crew | CLAIMED | log lists the boat's crew | said | 3 |
| lists_weight | CLAIMED | log lists the catch's weight | said | 3 |
| boats | TOLD in world clerk_world | boats are boats; response to a press not stated | said | 4 |
| tied | TOLD in world clerk_world | boats tied up | said | 4 |
| entry | GIVEN | entry is an entry; response to a press not stated | said | 5 |
| concerns | CLAIMED | entry concerns repairs | said | 5 |

Hmm — standing for clerk/log thing lines: CLAIMED vs GIVEN. Rule 4: main clause CLAIMED; descriptions GIVEN. The clerk is the doer of the main clause "read" → its existence is asserted by the main clause → CLAIMED. The log is the object of the main clause → CLAIMED. The harbourmaster comes from a possessive → GIVEN. The boat/catch come from subordinate interrogatives → GIVEN. The entry from s5's main clause subject... "The rest of the entry concerned repairs" — the entry is the subject of the main clause, but "the rest of" modifies it; the entry itself is presupposed (definite) → GIVEN. Hmm, definite subjects are presupposed. In "The dockyard clerk read the log", the clerk and log are also definite/presupposed. Ugh. 

In example_A: "1": "the balcony plants are tomato plants" mark said (from "The tomato plants on the balcony died..."). Thing lines there were said. Standing not shown. T10D: account GIVEN (subject of "says"), window/letter TOLD.

I'll go: clerk CLAIMED (doer of the main assertion), log CLAIMED (object of the main assertion), harbourmaster GIVEN (possessive background), boat/catch GIVEN (subordinate clauses), entry GIVEN (presupposed definite subject, the assertion is about what it concerns), trawler/bar/tide TOLD, boats TOLD. That's defensible.

Hmm, clerk as CLAIMED vs GIVEN — the clerk's existence is presupposed by "The dockyard clerk". But the clerk is the doer of the main clause. I'll keep CLAIMED. Fine.

Now the JSON. Let me draft it fully and check validity (no trailing commas, double quotes).

Also "whose": "Claude (Anthropic), under L82".

Let me write it.

One more check on prolog clause format: each clause ends with a full stop, first body goal is line(<id>). ✓.

For TOLD lines, same clauses with case/case_kind fields. ✓.

whatifs: [] — empty array is fine.

Now, also should I include a "names" mapping? Not required. Skip.

Let me also double-check: does every sentence appear as a line's sentence or bin entry? s1: lines 1-4 (sentence 1) ✓. s2: lines 5-11 ✓. s3: lines 12-15 + bin ✓. s4: lines 16-17 + bin ✓. s5: lines 18-19 + bin ✓. All good.

Also final checks from the task: every line has five parts ✓; every thing one name ✓ (clerk, harbourmaster, log, trawler, bar, tide, boat, catch, boats, entry — distinct); every added line marked — none added ✓; every sentence appears ✓; images/commands/attributions accounted — the attribution in s4 is binned ✓, no quoted commands, no images ✓.

Wait — is "the trawler crossed the bar" possibly figurative? No, it's literal seamanship. "the tide had turned" — literal. OK.

Hmm, one more: "crossed the bar" — "the bar" at a harbour entrance is a sandbar. Literal. Good. Should I record a reading that "bar" = sandbar? It's the ordinary reading. kind(bar, bar) — I could write kind(bar, sandbar). The text says "the bar"; a harbour bar is a sandbar. I'll keep kind(bar, bar) — no guess. Fine.

Also — "tied up" — boats tying up (mooring). Literal. Good.

Now write the final answer. Keep it clean. Let me write the JSON carefully.

Also note: the fenced block begins with ```json and ends with ```. Nothing else in it.

Let me count lines said = 19. Double-check: clerk, harbourmaster, log, read1, wrote1, trawler, bar, tide, crossed, turned, because1, boat, catch, lists_crew, lists_weight, boats, tied, entry, concerns = 19. ✓ All said.

Sentences losing to bin: 1,2,3,4,5 → 5.

Write it out now.