Let me work through this carefully. I need to produce a report covering sections (a)-(e) for the items in this part: definitions D12.7, D12.8, and the ones from other sections used (D12.1, D12.2, D12.6, D13.3), claims FC80-FC83, inventions I50, I52, I53, I56, I90, I92, unrecorded choices H07, H08, round-1 matter 3.

I need to be under ~3,000 words. Let me plan.

(a) Do formal statements say what sentences say?

- D12.7 (L219-L221): Prediction, violation, surprise. L220 "a violation occurs when fidelity fails at (a,b)" — maths writes ¬(F1 ∧ F2eq), narrow reading I50, plus Viol⁺ adds (A). Where they part company: text says "fidelity fails" which could mean all of F1, F2, A; maths splits narrow/wide. The text leaves it open — invention I50. Which should stand? The words "fidelity fails" — the maths' Viol⁺ (adding (A)) is closer to "fidelity fails" since fidelity is the condition of surviving; actually fidelity (D5.7) includes F1, F2 (hom + eq) and perhaps A? Hmm. From other parts, F1 is the valuation condition (contract?), F2 is homomorphism, (A) is... The prediction Ans_S(...) - (A) likely "the answer agrees with the actual value" i.e. the prediction matches. Actually "a violation occurs when fidelity fails at (a,b)" and D12.7's Pred is Ans_S(τ(a),σ(b)). A "failed prediction" option (a) in I50. So (A) is presumably "the value at (a,b) equals the prediction". So violation = fidelity fails; narrow = F1 ∧ F2eq. Which is closer to the text? "fidelity fails at (a,b)" suggests the whole fidelity condition fails at that pair — including the hom clause (F2 hom) and (A)? The maths invention I50 chose narrow: F1 and the F2 valuation equation. The words say "fidelity fails", which most naturally means the fidelity condition as defined (D5.7, Faithful_H) fails at that pair — the whole of F2 including hom, and (A)? Hmm. Faithful_H(t) requires fidelity on H. If fidelity at a pair is F1 ∧ F2 ∧ A... but (A) is a separate condition. I can't see D5.7 here. I should be careful: I can rely on lines not given here but must say so. Let me argue: the words "fidelity fails" fix the narrow set? Actually Viol⁺ adds (A) which is a failed prediction. But surprise is "a violation of a selected transport" — and the intuition (surprise = prediction violated) suggests (A) should be in violation. But the text distinguishes prediction from violation: prediction is Ans; violation is fidelity failing. Under I50's narrow reading, a transport can have a wrong answer at (a,b) yet fidelity holds (so no violation) if (A) isn't part of fidelity... Actually if (A) is the agreement of value with answer, then F2eq is the valuation equation of the contract at (a,b)? Hmm, x := (τ(a),σ(b)) is the "answer pair"; the valuation equation of F2 says the candidate's value at (a,b) equals its value at the answer pair? So fidelity fails when the candidate's organization doesn't give the same value at the query pair and the translated pair... That is exactly prediction correctness relative to the candidate itself. So narrow Viol = the candidate's own prediction fails internally; Viol⁺ = also the external (A). Hmm.

I'll handle this: the words "fidelity fails" — the maths carries two readings; text doesn't settle; propose wording to settle. But careful: I must not propose moving values (owner's question) — that's about where values are placed (I71?), fine.

- D12.7's Surp: H07 issue — "(a,b) ∉ H" does no work since Viol already implies (a,b) ∉ any surviving H. Also "for some 𝒯, μ, H" vs L217's "where t is selected, history H" (one history). This is a parting: the maths binds selection parameters by "for some", the text gives t one history H. Which stands? The words: L193 "determined by its history in the physical module" — provenance determined by its history; H is part of that history, so t has one H. The "for some" reading weakens surprise: it allows t to be selected on some other population/history. Actually "for some" makes Surp easier to obtain (existential). The counterexample FC81(d) rests on I53 (one history) but Surp uses "for some". Recommendation: words should stand; replace the formula with Sel(t;𝒯, μ, H) with H fixed by t's selection history. Proposed wording for the text? The text L217 already fixes H; the maths should change, not text. But the text might add that (a,b) ∉ H is where the history is silent... Actually L221 "surprise is a violation of a selected transport at (a,b) ∉ H" is what D12.7 formalizes. Fine.

- D12.8 Responses: L225 "A selection response extends the history H of a selected transport and lets μ act: the transport is re-tuned within the population." Maths: SelResp(t→t') with t' ∈ μ*(t), survives on H ∪ {(a,b)}; μ* allows zero steps so t' = t. Words say "re-tuned within the population" which suggests some change; "lets μ act" might allow no change? "the transport is re-tuned" — implies t' is a re-tuning of t, could be t itself if μ yields t? Also ConResp "introduces a new organization or a new transport with a construction trace" — maths reads "new" as New relative to a repertoire. Where part company: μ* (zero or more steps) vs "re-tuned" (at least the act). Also L225 speaks of responses to a violation ("the two responses to a violation"), the maths' SelResp requires survival on H ∪ {(a,b)} — extending history with the violating pair? Hmm — "extends the history H" — does the response extend H by (a,b), the pair where the violation occurred? The text says "extends the history H of a selected transport" without saying by what; the maths adds H ∪ {(a,b)} — an invention (part of I53/H08?). H08 says "Added in D12.8: SelResp uses μ*, any number of μ-steps including none, so t' = t is allowed. ConResp reads 'new' as New (N) relative to a repertoire." Both unrecorded. So (a): D12.8 vs L225: the text says the response extends H and lets μ act; the maths fixes the extension to H ∪ {(a,b)} and allows t' = t. Parting: the text does not say by what H is extended, nor that t' ≠ t. Words should stand? I'd say the text should add what is extended by (which pair) — proposal.

Also L225: "A construction response introduces a new organization or a new transport with a construction trace." Maths: ConResp(→ t'') with t'' or its codomain new (D13.5) and Con(t''; h, e). Note: the text says "a new organization or a new transport"; the maths says "t'' or its codomain is new" — slight mismatch: new organization = codomain new; new transport = t'' new. That seems okay but the pairing: text disjunction (new organization ∨ new transport) vs maths disjunction (t'' new ∨ codomain new) — same shape, but the text's "with a construction trace" qualifies... the transport? Both? Ambiguous in text. Proposal to fix.

Also D12.8's "Sel(t) ∧ t' ∈ μ*(t) ⊆ 𝒯 and t' survives on H ∪ {(a,b)}" — the text says "lets μ act: the transport is re-tuned within the population" — within the population 𝒯, consistent.

- D12.1 Sel (from other parts but used): FC81(d) and FC82 hinge on Sel not excluding Con. The text L193-L197: "exactly one of three provenances, determined by its history". The maths I53 evaluates on one whole history so Con excludes Sel. But the counterexamples show D12.1 doesn't exclude a represented codomain, so a transport can be both. Actually the text says "exactly one of three provenances" — that's a strong word: exactly one. So the text forces exclusivity; the maths' D12.1 as written does not (Sel only forbids representation of t, H or survival condition, not of its codomain). So the counterexample FC81(d)/FC82 tells against the invention I53/I52's formalization... wait. The text says exactly one of three provenances. The counterexample shows Sel ∧ Con can hold under the definitions as written. That contradicts "exactly one" if read as exclusive. So the counterexample tells against the maths' failure to encode exclusivity — but is it a counterexample to the text? The text asserts exclusivity ("exactly one of three"); the counterexample shows the definitions as formalized permit two. So the fix: the text already says exactly one; the maths should encode it. But the report's guidance: "A counterexample that rests on an invention tells against that way of writing the text, and against the text only where the text fixes what the invention fills in." Here the text fixes exclusivity ("exactly one of three provenances, determined by its history"), so the counterexample tells against the text only if the text's own definitions allow both. Hmm. The counterexample rests on I52 (Sel forbids only representation of t, H, survival condition) and I53. But the text itself says "exactly one of three provenances" — which the formalization didn't enforce. So the counterexample tells against the invention (the way the maths wrote Sel), not against the text: the text's "exactly one" rules out the model. Fix: make D12.1/D12.3 explicit exclusivity or make Sel exclude Con. But careful: FC81(d) claims "Con(t) ∧ Viol ⇒ ¬Surp" i.e. constructed transports cannot be surprised — text L223 "a constructed one that fails at an actually occurring pair of its contract is violated, and the failure is not surprise". The counterexample: a transport that is both Con and Sel can be surprised. If exclusivity holds (exactly one provenance), then a constructed transport isn't selected, so no surprise. So the text stands; the counterexample rests on the invention. But wait — is the exclusivity "determined by its history" enough? The text says exactly one of three provenances, determined by its history in the physical module. So yes, the text fixes it. The counterexample tells against I53's formalization (which apparently didn't fully enforce exclusivity — actually I53 says "Con then excludes Sel (Con puts a represented target in that history; Sel has none)"). Hmm, I53 says Con excludes Sel. But FC81(d) result says "The clause rests on FC78's claim that Sel excludes Con, which fails under D12.1." So under D12.1 as written, a transport with a represented codomain can satisfy Sel (since Sel only forbids representation of t, H, survival condition, not the codomain) and also Con (whose target is the codomain). So the contradiction: I53 asserts Con excludes Sel; D12.1 as written permits both; the counterexample shows both hold. So the counterexample tells against the invention I53 (or rather against the combination): it shows that I53's exclusion doesn't follow from D12.1 — the invention's assertion is inconsistent with the definitions it stands on. And the text? The text's "exactly one of three provenances" is the content that forces exclusivity. So the counterexample does not tell against the text; the maths should either add exclusivity to Sel/Con (an invention to record) or the text should say what forbids a represented codomain in Sel. But since the text says "exactly one", the text already covers it. However — the task asks: "whether the text settles each invention, and if not what it should say". For I53: the text says exactly one of three provenances determined by its history — does that settle "one whole history"? "determined by its history in the physical module" — its history, singular, suggests one history. So the text settles I53 partially: it fixes exclusivity and one history. The remaining gap: Sel's non-representation clause (L195) forbids representing t, H, or the survival condition — but not the codomain; the "exactly one" clause then must do the work of exclusivity. So the text as a whole settles it, but the individual sentences don't: better to say the text settles exclusivity at L193 but leaves open how Sel's clause and Con's clause interact; propose a wording? Careful about proposing wording: we can propose exact wording changes. Let me propose adding to L195's clause: nothing... Hmm. Actually the cleanest fix: state that provenances are mutually exclusive: "No transport has more than one provenance" or amend D12.1 to add ¬Con. But the task says give exact wording for proposals in the text. I could propose amending L193 to make exclusivity operative: "has exactly one of three provenances" is already there. So the maths should record an invention: exclusivity by fiat or by adding ¬Con(t) to Sel. Since the text settles it (exactly one), the counterexample tells against the invention's failure to carry it — I53's assertion "Con excludes Sel" is an invention whose justification (D12.1) doesn't provide it; the counterexample shows the definitions allow both, so as written the maths contradicts the text's "exactly one". Fix: either add exclusivity to D12.1/D12.2 as an invention (recorded), or the text must say what forbids the overlap. The text says "exactly one", so text stands; the maths must carry it.

But hold on: maybe the counterexample is meant to be against the text? FC81(d) "Con(t) ∧ Viol ⇒ ¬Surp" — text L223 says constructed ones aren't surprised. If the text also says exactly one provenance, then a Con transport is not Sel, hence cannot be Surp (Surp requires Sel). So the text's claims are consistent; the counterexample shows the formalization permits a transport that is both, which the text's "exactly one" forbids. So counterexample tells against the invention (I53's exclusion not derived; I52's clause too weak), and against the text only insofar as the text's individual clauses (L195) don't forbid it — but L193 does. Hmm, but is L193 "exactly one" a stipulation that the maths must honour? Yes: "determined by its history". So the answer: tells against the invention; the text stands; the change needed is in the maths (record a new invention: exclusivity), and optionally the text could make it explicit — but the text already says it; no text change needed. Actually maybe a text change is wise: L195's non-representation clause could add "or the organization t carries to". But that would be a content change beyond "exactly one" — it would change what Sel means. Hmm, "exactly one of three provenances" is a global claim; the local clauses give each provenance. Since the clauses overlap in models, "exactly one" is asserted as a fact about the world (history determines provenance) rather than a clause. Fine: the text's words stand; the maths needs an exclusivity invention; a proposal to the text is optional — I'll propose wording making exclusivity operative, but careful: the rule "say nothing about what hard to vary covers" etc. Fine.

Let me now consider FC82: "The two responses to a violation have no common result." Text L225: selection response re-tunes within population; construction response introduces a new organization or new transport with construction trace. "Only the second can be originative" (L225). The counterexample: t' survives on H ∪ {(a,b)} (SelResp) and has Con in the same history (ConResp). Under exclusivity (exactly one provenance) this is impossible: a transport can't be both selected and constructed. So again counterexample rests on the same missing exclusivity; tells against the invention, not the text. But also H08: the model computes sel(c, H + [x], h) alone — no violation, no μ step, t' = t. So the computed "responses" are not the text's responses at all; the counterexample shows only what FC78 shows. So FC82's counterexample is doubly weak: it rests on the model's mis-modelling of responses (H08) and on the exclusivity gap. So: tells against the inventions (I52, I53, and the model's H08 handling), not the text.

But is the text's claim "the two responses have no common result" itself well-founded? Under exclusivity, yes: SelResp's result t' is selected (survives on H ∪ …), ConResp's result t'' is constructed; exactly one provenance → no common result. But careful: what if the construction response introduces a new organization (not a transport)? Then results differ in kind. Also a subtlety: SelResp(t → t') where t' re-tuned; is t' selected? It survives on H ∪ {(a,b)} but is it in𝒯 and does it survive on some H'? Yes presumably. Hmm, but one might argue: the re-tuned t' is a new transport within population — provenance selected. Fine.

FC83: "Only the second can be originative under Part X." Counterexample: a selection response plus Build on the same history gives Origin. Does exclusivity fix this? Origin requires Build: a subhistory preparing a represented organization for explanatory use of c' with binding construction, not transfer composite. The counterexample sets Build's primitives by hand (I56, I90) and notes nothing ties Build's subhistory to the selection history. So even with exclusivity of provenance, a selected transport's content could have been built (prepared) in some subhistory? Hmm: if t' is selected (provenance selected), can there nonetheless be a construction trace preparing the organization t' carries to? Con is a provenance of the transport; Build is a predicate about episodes (Origin = Attempt ∧ New ∧ Build). The text's claim: only construction response can be originative — i.e., only a construction response can introduce content that is originative (creative). The counterexample shows the definitions allow a selection response whose result's content is originative. Does exclusivity fix it? If Sel excludes Con, then t' has provenance selected; but Build (D13.3) is about the episode preparing a represented organization for explanatory use of c' — nothing says that organization is t' or its codomain. The counterexample says "an owned subhistory prepares a represented organization for c' with a binding construction" — so c' (the content t' carries to) is prepared. Is that compatible with t' being selected? The selection forbids representing t', H, survival condition — but not the organization/codomain. So yes, even with exclusivity, a transport can be selected while its codomain organization was prepared by construction in a subhistory. Hmm — but "exactly one of three provenances" concerns transports' provenance, not the origin of content. So FC83's counterexample survives exclusivity? The claim "Only the second can be originative under Part X" is a claim about responses: a selection response cannot be originative. The counterexample says the definitions permit SelResp(t → t') where the content c' that t' carries to is originative. Since Origin concerns content c', and a selection response can carry to content that was built... The text's claim seems to assume originativity is introduced by construction. But the counterexample shows a selection response can deliver content that meets Origin. Does the text fix it? The text says "Only the second can be originative under Part X" — that's the claim itself; the counterexample tells against the text's claim as formalized, unless the text's Part X definition of Origin ties Build to the response. Hmm. The counterexample rests on I56 (Build's three primitives read through the physical module) and I90 (set by hand). So it shows what the definitions allow. Is that a counterexample to the text? The text's words "Only the second can be originative" is a claim; the definitions the text gives (Part X, L405) don't tie the construction to the response episode. So the counterexample tells against the text's claim, unless the text intends "originative" to mean "introducing new content", in which case a selection response by definition re-tunes existing content and cannot introduce new content — the mismatch is between "originative" (Origin = Attempt ∧ New ∧ Build applied to content) and "introduces". If Origin is about content c' being new and built, and a selection response carries to c' that was already built elsewhere... then c' isn't "new" relative to the repertoire? New (N) relative to a repertoire — if c' was built in an earlier episode, is it new? In the counterexample, New was set to hold by hand. Hmm: "no earlier content matches it (New): Origin yes" — set by hand. So the counterexample stipulates New holds. But if c' was built in a subhistory that is part of the same episode/history and New holds... plausible if the content is new.

So the counterexample shows: the text's claim that only the construction response can be originative does not follow from the definitions; it holds only if Build's subhistory is tied to the response (its Look names two conditions). So this tells against the text's claim as written — it's a claim the text states but the text's own definitions don't support. The fix: either weaken the claim to "Only the second response introduces a new organization or transport" (what the definitions give) or tie Origin to the response: e.g., "Only the second can be originative under Part X, since the first only re-tunes within the population." Actually the real issue: a selection response re-tunes within the population, so it doesn't produce new content; but the formalization's Origin can hold for the content t' carries to. The text's meaning: the response itself is originative when it introduces new content. The formal statement the maths wrote ("SelResp(t→t') ⇒ ¬Origin(s,c',p,h,e) for the content c' that t' carries to") is stronger than the text: the text says the response cannot be originative, not that the content it carries to is never originative. Hmm — is that a fair reading? "Only the second can be originative" — "can be originative" predicates of the response. The maths predicates Origin of the content c' t' carries to. That's a mismatch (part (a) point!). Indeed: the formal statement says something different from the sentence: the sentence is about the response being originative (introducing new content), the formula is about the content t' carries to meeting Origin. So (a): they part company; the words stand; the formula should be re-written as: a selection response is not originative = ¬(the response introduces content that is New and Built in it). Proposed formula or text wording? For (a) I give which stands; for text changes I give exact wording where the words should change.

Let me structure:

(a) entries:
1. D12.7 · L219–L221: Viol vs Viol⁺ (I50) — words "fidelity fails" leave open whether (A) and hom are included. The maths carries two; text should say which. Proposal wording for L220? The text says "a violation occurs when fidelity fails at (a,b)". I'd propose keeping words and adding a clarifying sentence? Careful: "fidelity" is a defined term (D5.7 Faithful_H) — so "fidelity fails at (a,b)" most naturally = the fidelity condition fails at that pair = F1 ∧ F2 (including hom) failing, and (A)? If fidelity is defined as a condition on a pair involving F1 and F2, then Viol narrow excludes (A). Hmm the maths' Viol⁺ "adds (A) at (a,b)" as separate. So "fidelity" in D5.7 presumably comprises F1 and F2 clauses (and maybe A?). I can't verify. I'll argue: the words tie violation to fidelity, so the narrow reading (I50) should stand as the text's meaning, and Viol⁺ is an extra the text does not state; but since surprise is intuitively about failed predictions, and L220 says fidelity fails, and Pred is defined separately, the text should say whether a wrong answer (A) counts. Proposal: add to L220 a clause: "A violation is the failure of fidelity at (a,b), not merely a wrong answer; where the answer is wrong and fidelity holds, the transport is not violated." Hmm, is that right? Actually think: F2's valuation equation says the value at (a,b) equals value at the answer pair — i.e., the candidate's own answer agrees with what the candidate gives at (a,b). If that fails, the candidate is internally inconsistent — "the prediction failed" in the sense of the candidate's own world. (A) presumably says the answer matches the target D's actual value. So Viol narrow = the transport's own prediction failed relative to itself; Viol⁺ = also fails relative to the world. L220 "fidelity fails" = narrow. L221 "surprise is a violation of a selected transport" — the intuition of surprise is the world answering otherwise. Under narrow Viol, a selected transport is surprised when it contradicts itself at (a,b)? That seems off: surprise should be about the world. Hmm, but (a,b) is a pair in C; the value at (a,b) is the candidate's value; "fidelity" is about the candidate's organization being faithful... Let me not overreach. I'll say: the text's words "fidelity fails" pick the narrow reading (I50's first conjunct) since fidelity is a defined condition; the extension Viol⁺ is not in the text; but surprise (L221) is a violation "of a selected transport at (a,b) ∉ H" and, since selection requires fidelity on H, a violation outside H is by definition a failure of fidelity — consistent. Which should stand? The words. And since the text leaves the scope of "fidelity" as defined elsewhere (D5.7), the maths' narrow reading follows the defined term; Viol⁺ should be recorded as an alternative not used. Actually the maths already records I50 as an invention. Fine: text settles? "fidelity fails" — fidelity is defined; so the text does settle the scope if fidelity is defined as F1 ∧ F2eq... I'd say: the text settles it by using the defined term "fidelity", so I50's narrow reading is not an invention but a consequence; the (A) alternative contradicts the defined term. But careful: "Keep apart what the text forces and what a reader might take it to mean." OK.

2. D12.7 Surp: "for some 𝒯, μ, H" vs L217's single H and L193 "determined by its history". Parting: maths' existential binding. Words stand; the maths should bind H to t's selection history. Also the redundancy: "(a,b) ∉ H" does no work (H07). Text stands; maths note.

3. D12.8 · L225: two partings: (i) the maths fixes the extension to H ∪ {(a,b)} while the text says only "extends the history H"; (ii) μ* allows t' = t while the text says "the transport is re-tuned" (suggesting a change? or not). Which stands? The words; but words need the extension specified. Proposal: amend L225 to say by which pair: "A selection response extends the history H of a selected transport by the pair at which the failure occurred and lets μ act: the transport is re-tuned within the population." Is that the text's content? The text doesn't say; adding "by the pair at which the failure occurred" is an invention written into the text — must name it (H08's added clause). Hmm — the rule: "A proposal that writes an invention into the text says so, naming it." So if I propose to add "by the pair at which the failure occurred", I must say it writes in an invention (the H ∪ {(a,b)} choice). Alternatively say it should stay open. Since L225 says "responses to a violation" (implied by context: the two responses to a violation), the extension is plausibly by the violating pair. I'll propose the wording and say it writes in the choice H08 records (the model's/D12.8's H ∪ {(a,b)}). Hmm, but the two responses in L225 aren't explicitly tied to a violation in the quoted sentence; the section header of this part calls them "the two responses to a violation". L225's own words: "A selection response extends the history H of a selected transport and lets μ act". So "extends" is not tied to the violation. I'll propose a minimal wording that states the extension, flagging the invention.

Also (ii): "the transport is re-tuned within the population" vs μ* with zero steps: if μ* allows no step, t' = t, so the "response" may change nothing. Does the text forbid that? "lets μ act: the transport is re-tuned" — "re-tuned" suggests some action. But S20 etc. don't speak to it. I'd say the words should stand in their vagueness; but for the claim FC82 ("no common result") the t' = t allowance matters little. Proposal: leave open? Or say: "the transport may be re-tuned within the population" to allow no change? Careful about the "no common result" claim: if t' = t allowed, and t' can also be constructed... still exclusivity. Hmm. I'll propose wording for the "re-tuned" ambiguity: maybe better to leave open (the text's "lets μ act" doesn't fix whether μ must change t). Say it should stay open, because whether μ must change t is a modelling choice with no textual consequence here. Hmm but H08 says "Neither choice has a number." Fine.

Also D12.8 ConResp: "introduces a new organization or a new transport with a construction trace" vs ConResp(→ t'') with t'' or its codomain new and Con(t''). Text disjunction: new organization OR new transport; maths: t'' new OR codomain new. The text's "with a construction trace" — does it modify the whole? Probably yes. Mismatch: text says new organization or new transport; maths says transport t'' (with new codomain or new itself) — the text allows a construction response that introduces an organization without a transport? Minor. Note it and propose wording? Keep it short.

Also D12.1/D12.2 overlap → exclusivity: this is in (b) mostly (FC81d, FC82 counterexamples). Also (c) I52, I53.

(b) counterexamples:
- FC81(d): counterexample rests on the overlap Sel ∧ Con. Text L193 "exactly one of three provenances" forbids it. So it tells against the inventions I52 (Sel's clause) and I53 (the exclusion asserted not derived); the text stands. But: does the text settle it? L193 says exactly one; so the text does settle exclusivity — but the text's own local clauses (L195, L197) permit overlap in models, so the text's "exactly one" is an assertion not backed by its clauses. Hmm. The rule: "against the text only where the text fixes what the invention fills in." Here the text fixes exactly-one; the invention (I53's "Con excludes Sel") fills in the mechanism. The counterexample shows the mechanism fails under D12.1 as written. So counterexample tells against the way of writing the text (the definitions as formalized), and against the text? The text asserts exclusivity as a fact; the counterexample model satisfies the local clauses but violates "exactly one" — so it's not a model of the text's words (since "exactly one" is part of the text). Therefore: counterexample tells against the maths only. Fix to the maths: record an invention making Sel and Con mutually exclusive (e.g. Sel requires ¬Con), or make D12.1's non-representation clause cover the organization t carries to. And optionally a text clarification: add to L195 "no occurrence represents t, H, the survival condition, or the organization t carries to". Hmm — that would write an invention into the text; but would it be correct? If the text says exactly one provenance, then the local clauses should be consistent with it. The cleanest: add the exclusivity to the text explicitly as a sentence? The text already has it at L193. I'll say no change needed to the text; the maths must carry exclusivity; propose the maths-side invention, and optionally quote how. But the report asks "give the exact change to the text that removes it; or say that it shows the text saying something it should not, and what." If it doesn't tell against the text, I say: it tells against the invention; no text change. But maybe I should propose a clarifying sentence to make exclusivity operative in the local clauses — the task wants proposals where words should change. I think a short proposal is good: add to L195's survival/non-representation clause: "no occurrence represents t, H or the survival condition" → keep; and add at L193: already "exactly one". Perhaps propose: L197 add "and t does not survive on any history of the same attribution" — no, overreach. I'll say: the text stands; the maths must add an exclusivity condition (recorded as an invention, since the text fixes it, it is not an invention but a carrying of the text's words — actually "Nothing invented is the text's own content"; here the exclusivity IS the text's content, so implementing it is not invention). Good: implementing exclusivity is carrying the text's words, so no new invention needed. Say that.

Hmm, but careful: is "exactly one of three provenances" a claim about transports in general (each transport has exactly one provenance), or a definitional instruction? L193: "A transport t whose domain is an organization of a physical system has exactly one of three provenances, determined by its history in the physical module". It's a stipulation: provenance is a function of history. So yes: text forces exclusivity. Counterexample rests on I53's inconsistent implementation. So: "tells against the invention, not the text; the text's L193 rules the model out; the maths must carry exclusivity."

Wait but the model also had Sel: yes — the transport survived on H and had a physical selection history with no representation of t, H, survival condition... but the codomain was represented (so Con). Under "exactly one", this is not a legal attribution. But note: the attribution is determined by history — if the history contains both selection markers and construction markers, the stipulation "exactly one" says one of them is the provenance — but which? Undetermined. So the text over-stipulates: it asserts determinacy the clauses don't deliver. Hmm — "determined by its history" — if a history has both, the text says provenance is determined by it, but the clauses don't determine which. So there is a genuine gap: the text says determinate, the clauses leave it open. So the counterexample does show the text saying something its own clauses don't support — i.e., the text asserts exclusivity/determinacy while its definitions of the three provenances are not mutually exclusive nor jointly exhaustive. So it "shows the text saying something it should not, and what" — hmm, or shows the text needing a change to make exclusivity operative. I think the fair verdict: the counterexample tells against the invention's writing (the local clauses as formalized from L195/L197), and the text's L193 is content the maths failed to carry; but since L195/L197 are the text's own clauses and they do not exclude overlap, the text as a whole is inconsistent — the overlap is possible under the text's clauses even though L193 forbids it. So the text needs a change to make L193's exclusivity follow from the clauses. Proposal: amend L195 to add "nor the organization t carries to" to the non-representation clause? That would make Sel exclude Con in this case (Con requires a represented target = t or its codomain). If Con's target is "t, or the organization it carries to" (L197), then forbidding representation of both t and the codomain in Sel makes Sel ⟹ ¬Con. That's a text change removing the counterexample exactly. But careful: would that change the text's content? It writes in a choice (which representation to forbid). The rule: "A proposal that writes an invention into the text says so, naming it." So I'd say: the proposal writes into the text the choice that I53's exclusion assumed (Con excludes Sel); it names it. Alternatively, state exclusivity as a third clause: "No transport has more than one provenance." Since L193 already says "exactly one", maybe the cleanest proposal is to make it operative by stating the conflict rule: "Where a history would give a transport two of these, the attribution is undetermined." Hmm — that contradicts "determined by its history". Careful: owner's S28: nothing settled. Hmm.

Let me keep it manageable: I'll propose the L195 addition and note it writes in the choice (call it the exclusivity choice; the register's I53 assumed it). Actually the register: I53 "Sel and Con are evaluated on one history: ... Con then excludes Sel (Con puts a represented target in that history; Sel has none)". So I53's mechanism was "Sel has no represented target" — but D12.1's clause only forbids representing t, H, survival condition. So the invention's own stated mechanism conflicts with its implementation. So it's an internal inconsistency of the invention. Fine.

- FC82 counterexample: rests on same history + H08 (model's responses not modelled). Verdict: tells against the inventions (I52, I53, H08's model handling), not the text; the text's L193 excludes it. Additionally the computed "response" is not a response at all (H08): the model computed Sel on extended history with t' = t and no violation; so the counterexample is against the model's reading, not the text. Change to text: none needed for exclusivity; but if we want the responses well-defined, add the extension wording (proposal in (a)). Also note: with μ* allowing t' = t, "no common result" can be trivially... hmm. Actually there's a real issue: does the text's claim "the two responses have no common result" even hold if a construction response's result t'' can be selected? Under exactly-one, no. So fine.

- FC83 counterexample: computed not as claimed. Here the counterexample is to the claim "Only the second can be originative under Part X". Does exclusivity fix it? The counterexample's t' is selected (SelResp) and its content c' is originative (Build elsewhere). Even with exclusivity, nothing forbids Build's subhistory coexisting with selection. So this counterexample survives and tells against the text's claim as worded/formalized. But careful: the formal statement predicates Origin of the content c' t' carries to; the sentence predicates originativity of the response. So (a) mismatch: the counterexample attacks the formal statement, not the sentence. Is the sentence itself defensible? "Only the second can be originative under Part X" — meaning only a construction response can be originative (introduce new content). If a selection response re-tunes within the population, it introduces no new content; so the sentence, read as about the response, is plausibly right — but then "originative" must be a predicate of responses, which Part X's Origin is not (Origin is of contents/episodes). So the mismatch: the text's word "originative" applied to responses is not defined for responses. Verdict: the counterexample tells against the formal statement's reading; the sentence should be reworded to state what the definitions support, or Origin should be defined for responses. Proposal wording: replace L225's last sentence with: "Only the second can introduce content that is originative under Part X: a selection response only re-tunes within the population and introduces no new content." Hmm, but does that assert what must happen? No, it describes the definitions. But careful: is it true? A selection response's result t' carries to content c' — if c' is New and Built... The counterexample says yes possible. So "a selection response ... introduces no new content" — but the counterexample's c' is content that t' carries to and is originative — is c' introduced by the response? In the counterexample, Build's subhistory prepares the organization for c' — so the content was prepared earlier, not introduced by the response. So the response doesn't introduce it. Hence the reworded sentence holds while the original formalization failed. Good: proposal: "Only the second can be originative under Part X" → "Only the second response introduces content that is originative under Part X; a selection response re-tunes within the population and does not introduce content." That names what "originative" means here. Also flag: the proposal writes in the reading that originativity is predicated of the content introduced by the response (an invention? it's clarifying the text's own word). Hmm.

Also note: FC83's counterexample rests on I56 and I90 (set by hand) — shows what definitions allow, not physics. So "tells against the invention" in the sense that under I56's primitives set by hand, the model shows the definitions permit it. But the definitions as formalized do permit it (nothing ties Build to the response). So it tells against the text's claim as formalized; the sentence's own content ("Only the second can be originative") is a claim the text states but the text's definitions don't fix — so it tells against the text? The rule: "A counterexample that rests on an invention tells against that way of writing the text, and against the text only where the text fixes what the invention fills in." FC83's counterexample rests on I56 (Build's primitives) and I90 (physical module by hand). Does the text fix these? I56's three primitives: L405 defines Build with "prepares", "nontrivial binding construction", "not a composition of content-preserving transfers" — those are the text's words, but their reading as primitives is the invention. So the counterexample rests on inventions; it tells against that way of writing the text. But the deeper point: even setting those aside, nothing in the text ties Build's subhistory to the response. So the claim "Only the second can be originative" doesn't follow from the text's own definitions — the text asserts it without support. So the counterexample tells against the text's claim (a claim the text states) to the extent the text means the formal statement; since the formal statement ≠ the sentence, the sentence stands but needs its predicate ("originative" of a response) defined. Verdict: counterexample is to the formal statement's reading and shows the sentence, as it stands, asserts something the text's definitions don't deliver; the fix is the rewording above (or define originativity of responses in Part X).

(c) inventions in full here: I50. Does the text settle it? L220 "a violation occurs when fidelity fails at (a,b)" — fidelity is defined; so the text settles the narrow reading if fidelity's definition covers F1 and the F2 equation and not (A). Since (A) is not part of fidelity (it's an extra condition added in Viol⁺), the text settles: narrow reading stands. But wait — is that right? "fidelity fails at (a,b)" — if D5.7's Faithful_H(t) requires F1 and F2 (hom + eq) on H, then fidelity at a pair = F1 ∧ F2 (both clauses). The narrow Viol omits the hom clause (option b in I50). Hmm! I50: "Invented: Violation(t;a,b) := not [(F1) at (a,b) and the valuation equation of (F2) at (a,b)] (narrow). Violation⁺ adds (A) at (a,b). Other choices: (a) only (A) at (a,b) (a failed prediction); (b) the whole of (F2), homomorphism clause included." So three readings: narrow = F1 ∧ F2eq; (A)-only; whole F2 including hom. The text's "fidelity fails" — if fidelity = F1 ∧ F2 (hom ∧ eq), then the text settles option (b): whole of F2 including hom. Hmm! Which is it? If D5.7's fidelity includes hom, then "fidelity fails" = ¬(F1 ∧ F2hom ∧ F2eq) = option (b). So the text's words favour option (b), not the narrow! The narrow drops the hom clause. So there IS a parting: the maths' chosen narrow reading drops the hom clause, while the text says "fidelity fails", and fidelity (D5.7, Faithful_H) presumably includes hom. I should say: the words should stand; violation = failure of fidelity as defined (F1 and the whole of F2, hom included); the narrow reading is an invention not fixed by the text and, if fidelity includes hom, contradicted by it. But careful: I don't have D5.7 here; I should say I rely on lines not given (L?). The instructions: "where you rely on a line not given here, say so." I'll say: I rely on the maths' naming of (F1), (F2) and D5.7 (not printed here) for what fidelity comprises. Then: the text's "fidelity fails" picks whatever D5.7 makes fidelity; the invention chose to exclude the hom clause. Verdict: words stand; propose nothing to change the text (it uses a defined term), but the maths should carry the whole of fidelity; if the text wants the narrow, it must say so. Hmm, but which should stand? The report asks "which should stand, the maths or the words, with reasons why this and not that." I say the words: "fidelity" is a defined term and its scope is fixed by its definition; a violation is the failure of that condition at the pair; the narrow reading silently narrows a defined term. And (A): the text's L220 says fidelity fails, so a wrong answer (A) alone is not a violation unless (A) is part of fidelity; L221's surprise then = fidelity failing at an unseen pair. But hmm, then surprise wouldn't be "prediction violated" in the world sense. But S27/S28: conflicts at the level of explanation without testing against reality — consistent with narrow violation! Good: the owner's S27 says explanations can conflict without testing against reality — supporting violation as internal (fidelity) failure rather than world-mismatch. Nice argument: decision S27 supports reading violation as an explanatory conflict, not a check against the world. So (A) should not be in Viol; the narrow/whole-F2 question remains on hom.

Hmm, but Viol⁺ "adds (A)" and FC20 asks when they coincide (that's another part). Fine.

- I52 (given in full elsewhere; here: what was invented — μ: 𝒯 → P(𝒯); survival condition = Faithful_H; Sel requires physical selection history with no representation of t, H, survival condition; "member of the history" read as occurrence). Does the text settle? L195 (quoted): "There is a population 𝒯 of candidate transports, a variation operator μ on 𝒯, a finite history H ⊆ C of edit–boundary pairs actually encountered, and a survival condition requiring fidelity on H." And "No member of the history represents t, H, or the survival condition." So the text settles: population, μ, H, survival condition, non-representation. The invention's specifics: μ as a map to P(𝒯) — text says "variation operator μ on 𝒯" — a map 𝒯 → 𝒯 is the standard reading; P(𝒯) is an invention (allowing multiple offspring). Settle? Not fully; propose: "a variation operator μ on 𝒯" → "a variation operator μ: 𝒯 → 𝒫(𝒯) on 𝒯"? That writes in an invention. Alternatively leave open. I think note: the text doesn't fix μ's type; the invention should be recorded (already is); the text should say, or stay open. I'll propose minimal wording naming the invention? Hmm. The question (c): "Does the text in fact settle it? If it does, quote the words that do. If not, give the exact wording the text should carry, or say why it should stay open." For I52, partially: the text's L195 settles population, H, survival condition and non-representation; it does not settle μ's type, nor that Sel's parameters are witnessed in a physical history (h_sel) — actually L195 says "a finite history H ⊆ C of edit–boundary pairs actually encountered" and "determined by its history in the physical module" (L193) — so history is in the physical module. OK. And "no member of the history represents t, H or the survival condition" — the text says "No member of the history represents t, H, or the survival condition" — but H's members are pairs and cannot represent! That's an oddity the invention noted ("'Member of the history' is read as an occurrence of h_sel"). So the text's sentence is literally about members of H (pairs), which can't represent anything — a category slip. Verdict: the text should change: "No occurrence in the history represents t, H, or the survival condition." Proposal: exact wording replacing L195's sentence. But I only have fragments of L195; the quoted fragment: "A transport **survives on \(H\)** when it is a member of \(\mathcal T\) that meets the survival condition on \(H\); fidelity on \(H\) without membership in \(\mathcal T\) is not survival. No member of the history represents \(t\), \(H\), or the survival condition." So the last sentence is exactly "No member of the history represents t, H, or the survival condition." Good — I can quote it and propose replacement: "No occurrence of the history represents t, H, or the survival condition." That writes in the invention's reading? It's a correction of a category slip, and the invention recorded the reading; the proposal writes it into the text — name it (the I52 reading "'Member of the history' is read as an occurrence of h_sel"). Yes.

- I53 (in full elsewhere; here: "Sel and Con are evaluated on one history; Con then excludes Sel"). Text: L193 "exactly one of three provenances, determined by its history in the physical module" settles exclusivity and one history. So the text does settle I53's content; but its mechanism (Con puts a represented target in that history; Sel has none) doesn't follow from the clauses — as the counterexamples show. Verdict: text settles the exclusivity (quote L193); the mechanism is an invention that fails; the fix is to carry L193's words as a condition (not an invention). No text change needed; but optionally make it operative. I'll propose the L195 amendment? Hmm, the L195 amendment "no occurrence ... represents t, H, the survival condition, or the organization t carries to" would implement exclusivity where Con's target can be the codomain. But is that the text's content? L193's "exactly one" forces it in effect. The proposal writes in a particular mechanism — name it (I53's). Alternatively propose: add sentence after L197: "No transport has two of these provenances." That's just restating L193. Simplest: no change needed to the text (L193 states it); the maths must add the condition and record that it is the text's own words, not an invention. But the task explicitly wants: for each counterexample "give the exact change to the text that removes it; or say that it shows the text saying something it should not, and what." For FC81(d)/FC82 I can say: no change needed; L193 removes it as it stands; the maths must carry it. But is the model then excluded? The model satisfies local clauses but violates "exactly one" — since "exactly one" is in the text, the model isn't a model of the text. So counterexample is to the writing, not the text. But then, does the text's "exactly one" itself over-reach? It asserts determinacy ("determined by its history") that the clauses don't deliver — if a history has both markers, which provenance? The text says determined; the clauses don't say. So the text says something it shouldn't (determinacy without a rule) — or the clauses should carry the rule. I'll say: the text's clauses should carry the exclusivity, with exact wording proposal; and flag that it writes in I53's mechanism. Let me draft:

For L195's non-representation sentence, proposal:

```
> L195 | No occurrence of the history represents \(t\), \(H\), the survival condition, or the organization \(t\) carries to.
```
replacing "No member of the history represents t, H, or the survival condition." — says: writes in the I53 reading (occurrences, not members) and the exclusivity mechanism of I53 (Con's target represented⟹ not Sel).

Hmm, but adding "or the organization t carries to" changes Sel's content — it forbids a selected transport from having a represented codomain, which is a content decision. Since the text says exactly one provenance, and Con covers representation of t or its codomain, this is one way to implement it. I must say: it writes in the invention I53's mechanism, and it is one of two ways (the other: make provenance attribution a stipulated function of history). Fine.

- I56 (Build primitives): text L405 gives the three phrases "prepares", "nontrivial binding construction", "not a composition of content-preserving transfers" — the invention reads them as primitive predicates. Does the text settle? Not their reading; the text gives the words. Verdict: should stay open? Or the text should say what counts? L409 (not given here) says "A binding may be identified by its use: by responses meeting D9.11's clauses (L409)" — from the definitions quoted. So the text partially settles bindings by use. For FC83 the counterexample rests on I56's primitives being settable by hand (with I90). Verdict: the text doesn't settle how Prepares/BindingConstruction/TransferComposite are recognized; they are read through the physical module (I90); the counterexample shows the definitions permit a selected transport whose content is built. Keep short: say text does not settle; it should stay open (the physical module's reading is outside the semantics), but the text should state that Build is about the episode that prepares the content, not about the response — which the rewording of L225 (FC83) does.

- I90 (physical module by hand): text? The text's physical module (Part XII?) supplies histories; the text says provenance determined by history in the physical module. The invention sets these as free predicates. Verdict: text doesn't fix; must stay open (it's the physical module's business); the counterexamples show what definitions allow, not physics — already flagged. Say: nothing to change; but the report should keep the flag.

- I92 (the pole): nothing here to settle; skip or one line.

- H07: unrecorded choice — Surp binds selection parameters "for some". Text: L217 "Let t be a transport to the simulation layer S, with contract C and, where t is selected, history H" + L193 "determined by its history". So the text settles: one H, fixed by history. Verdict: the text settles it; the "for some" reading contradicts L217/L193; the maths should bind H to t's own selection history. Also the redundancy: "(a,b) ∉ H" does no work — a consequence of Viol⟹ (a,b) ∉ H; text may keep the clause for readability (it states content: surprise is outside the history) — no change needed; but note it. Hmm, "the clause does no work" — is it harmless? Yes, redundant but contentful (it says what surprise is). Keep.

- H08: the model's responses; text L225. Two choices unrecorded: μ* (zero steps) and "new" = New relative to repertoire; and the model computed sel(c, H+[x], h) alone. Verdict: text doesn't fix the number of μ steps; "re-tuned" suggests some action but doesn't fix it; propose wording or leave open. I'll propose: keep open? The rules: "or say why it should stay open." For μ*: leave open — whether μ must change t is not settled and doesn't affect the claims here; but for FC82/FC83 the counterexamples rest on it; better to say: the text should state whether the result of a selection response may be the transport itself — because the claim "the two responses have no common result" is trivial otherwise? Hmm. Actually let me propose wording to fix the model gap: the model's computed "response" isn't a response; so the counterexamples' evidential value is nil beyond FC78's. Say: H08 shows FC82/FC83's computations don't model the text's responses; the claims as computed are untested in substance; the text needs the extension-by-which-pair wording to make SelResp a response to a violation.

(d) attack the claims that held: FC80 held (on all models tried). Attack by hand: FC80 (a),(b) "the survivors on H fix what they share". (a) underdetermination witness found. (c) not tested. Attack (b): "If all survivors on H agree at (a,b), that value is a function of (𝒯, H)" — trivially true given I71's "value" definition? But under another reading of "value" (I71), e.g., if the value at (a,b) is not determined by the transport alone (depends on the target D's actual value, or on Occurs), then "survivors agree" could hold while the value varies with the model's D. Also: with I02 (no law linking composite edits' relations to parts'), the population may include transports agreeing at (a,b) in every model tried yet differing in a larger model beyond the bounds — e.g., a composite edit (a,b) where a is a composite edit: the value at (a,b) is not fixed by values at parts, so two survivors can agree on all pairs in the small search but differ at a composite pair in a model with more edits. Construct by hand: model with ports... Let me construct: Let C contain pairs (a,b) where a is composite: a = a1 ∘ a2 (an edit composed of two parts). Under I02 no law links the relation of a composite edit to its parts' relations, so t and t' can agree at (a1,b) and (a2,b) but differ at (a,b) = (a1∘a2, b), and both survive on H = {(a1,b),(a2,b)}. Then value differs at (a,b) ∉ H — that's (a) underdetermination, which the search found anyway (witness). For (b): if all survivors on H agree at (a,b) in models with ≤3 ports, is that value "a function of (𝒯, H)"? By definition yes, given the value is determined by the transport (I71). But under I02, a population extended with a new transport agreeing on H but differing at (a,b) — but (b) quantifies over all survivors in 𝒯, so extending 𝒯 changes the function's value; "a function of (𝒯, H)" is fine since𝒯 is an argument. Attack (b) under another reading of "value": if the value of a transport at a pair includes the target's actual value (I71's other choice), then survivors can agree on their own value yet the value at (a,b) differs across targets D — then the value is not a function of (𝒯, H) alone. So (b) rests on I71's reading of "value" as the transport's own value. Model: two targets D1, D2 with different actual values at (a,b); same𝒯, H; survivors agree among themselves; the "value at (a,b)" (read as what the pair takes in the world) differs. So (b) is a counterexample under I71's alternative. Good hand attack.

Also attack FC80(a) beyond bounds: with an action law (I02's alternative), an alteration at one pair forces others; then (a)'s hypothesis (two survivors differing at exactly one pair outside H) may be impossible — the text's Argument 3 step "altered at one pair gives another admitted relation" (L572/L574?) rests on I02; under an action law, the claim's hypothesis is harder to meet, so the text's underdetermination claim would need a different shape. That's already noted as not tested. Give a hand model? With an action law: e.g., transports must respect a group action: changing value at (a,b) forces change at (a',b). Then two survivors differing at (a,b) also differ at (a',b); if (a',b) ∈ H, then they can't both survive; so no underdetermination at (a,b) if its orbit meets H. So underdetermination becomes: exists (a,b) whose orbit avoids H. The text's L572 "the value of t at (a,b) is underdetermined by H: survival on H does not distinguish t from t' there" survives if the orbit avoids H. So the claim needs a condition. Present briefly as the hand attack on FC80 (a)/(c).

Also FC80's claim rests on I71 ("the value of a transport at a pair"): if "value" is the answer Ans rather than a port valuation, the witness's "different values" reading changes. Keep brief.

Also attack FC81(a)-(c) "holds by construction": (a) Surp ⇒ H ⊊ C: by construction because Surp includes (a,b) ∈ C∖H. But under H07's "for some" binding, H is not t's history; "H ⊊ C" refers to which H? If Surp holds for some 𝒯,μ,H with (a,b) ∉ H, then t's own history might equal C while the witnessing H is smaller — then "H ⊊ C" is about the witnessing H, not t's history, and the sentence's claim ("A system can be surprised only if it holds a transport selected on a history H strictly smaller than its contract C") becomes about t's own history. So under the existential reading, (a) is only about the witness. Hand attack: a transport selected on H = C (its history exhausts its contract) but also selected on a smaller H' (some other population/history) — with "for some", Surp holds while the text's claim about t's history fails. So (a)'s "by construction" hides H07. Good.

(c) H = C ⇒ no Surp: under "for some", t with H = C can be surprised if some smaller H' witnesses selection. So (c) also fails under H07 — the counterexample would be: t survives on H' = C∖{(a,b)} in some population; violated at (a,b); Surp holds with H = H'; but t's own history (determined by history, L193) is C. Under I53's one-history reading, this is impossible. So the existential binding (H07) is the vulnerability. Good hand attack.

(b) No transport ⇒ no Surp: trivial; but a "system with no transport" — fine.

So (d): attack FC80 (b) under I71's alternative reading of value; attack FC80 (a) under an action law (I02's alternative); attack FC81 (a),(c) under H07's existential binding. Those are good.

(e) round-1 matter 3: "signature" in everyday sense at L584 ("the signature of a selected transport meeting a change outside its history"), beside the defined term. Does the text need a change? "signature" is presumably a defined term elsewhere in the text (maybe of an edit or a transport?) used at L584 in the everyday sense. If a defined term is used in an everyday sense, the text should avoid the clash. Proposal: replace "signature" with "mark" or "profile"? Hmm — what is meant: the signature of a selected transport meeting a change outside its history = the characteristic trace/behaviour when surprised? Perhaps "the signature" here means the distinctive pattern of a violation/surprise. Proposal wording: "the signature of a selected transport meeting a change outside its history" → "the pattern of a selected transport meeting a change outside its history"? But I don't know what the defined term "signature" means elsewhere — I'd rely on lines not given. Safer: say the text needs a change to avoid the clash with the defined term, and propose: "the characteristic trace of a selected transport meeting a change outside its history" — flagging that if the defined sense is intended, the defined term stands and nothing changes. I'll give the proposal and the caveat. Careful with rules: "Where values are placed is the owner's question; do not propose to move them." Not relevant.

Also must respect decision S23 (forbidden words): avoid "fits, supports, verifies, true, better than, established, reason to believe", etc. And S28: nothing is settled. And S21: nothing about what must happen to a candidate. And don't propose about hard-to-vary. Also avoid belief-language: "accepted is always tentatively" — if I use "accept", write "tentatively accepted". Avoid "argument" misuse: "an argument is reasons why this and not that" — I can use "argument" correctly.

Word budget: ~3000 words. Let me write efficiently.

Structure:

## (a)
1. D12.7 · L219–L221 (I50 scope; violation vs fidelity)
2. D12.7 · L217/L221 (Surp binding H; H07)
3. D12.8 · L225 (extension by which pair; μ*; ConResp's disjunction)
4. FC83's formal statement vs L225 sentence ("originative" of a response vs of content)

Items with nothing to add: D12.1, D12.2, D12.6, D13.3 (name in one line).

## (b)
- FC81 · L580/L223 (d): tells against inventions I52/I53's writing; text L193 rules out; no change needed but proposal to make operative (or say text should carry the exclusivity in the clauses).
- FC82 · L225: same history + H08; tells against inventions; the computed response is not a response.
- FC83 · L225: tells against the formal statement and against the text's sentence as worded (asserts something the definitions don't deliver); fix with reworded L225 last sentence.

## (c)
- I50: text settles via "fidelity" (defined) — narrow vs hom question; proposal? Say words settle scope via the defined term; the hom question is settled by D5.7's fidelity, so no invention is left except if fidelity excludes hom. Keep short.
- I52: text settles population/H/survival/non-representation; the "member of the history" category slip → proposal; μ's type open → leave open or proposal.- I53: text settles exclusivity (L193) and one history; mechanism is the invention; proposal to make operative.
- I56: not settled; stay open but the response/content distinction needed (covered by FC83 proposal).
- I90: not settled and shouldn't be (physical module).
- I92: nothing to add.
- H07: text settles (L217, L193); the existential binding contradicts it; no text change (L217 stands) — but perhaps clarify.- H08: text doesn't fix μ* and "new"; proposal for extension-by-pair (naming the invention written in); leave μ*'s zero-step open? Say: should stay open, since the text's "lets μ act" doesn't fix it, and nothing here turns on it; but the model must model a response.

## (d)
- FC80 · L572/L574: hand attacks: (b) under I71's other reading of value (two targets); (a)/(c) under an action law (I02's other choice) — orbit condition. Also (a) witness beyond bounds: composite edits.
- FC81 · L580: (a),(c) under H07's existential binding.

## (e)
- matter 3 · L584: proposal.

Then a line naming items with nothing to add where appropriate. End with END OF REPORT.

Let me watch the word count: aim ~2600-2900.

Now careful writing of proposals with fence lines and line they replace.

Proposal 1 (I52 category slip / I53 exclusivity), replaces L195's last sentence:

```
> L195 | No occurrence of the history represents \(t\), \(H\), the survival condition, or the organization \(t\) carries to.
```
replacing "> L195 | No member of the history represents \(t\), \(H\), or the survival condition."

Say: writes into the text the choice recorded as I53's mechanism (Con's target is a represented target; Sel has none) and the I52 reading of "member of the history" as occurrence.

Proposal 2 (L225 responses), replaces the whole L225? The text L225 is one line with two sentences plus "Only the second can be originative under Part X." Let me quote L225 as given: "A **selection response** extends the history \(H\) of a selected transport and lets \(\mu\) act: the transport is re-tuned within the population. A **construction response** introduces a new organization or a new transport with a construction trace." and separately "Only the second can be originative under Part X." (also L225). So L225 has three sentences. Proposal replacing L225 wholly:

```
> L225 | A **selection response** to a failure at \((a,b)\) extends the history \(H\) of a selected transport by \((a,b)\) and lets \(\mu\) act: the transport may be re-tuned within the population. A **construction response** introduces a new transport or a new organization with a construction trace. Only the second response introduces content that is originative under Part X; a selection response carries content the population already holds.
```

Hmm "carries content the population already holds" — is that text content? The selection response re-tunes within the population; the content is from the population. OK. But careful: does that assert what must happen to a candidate? No. Does it obey S23? Words like "holds" fine. Avoid "new content"? Fine.

But the rule: each proposal is the whole sentence as it would stand, between fence lines, with the line it replaces. So I can give one proposal per item; better to give separate proposals where they replace different sentences? L225 is one line; but I can give the line as a whole. Maybe split into two proposals: one for the extension (replacing sentence 1) and one for the originative sentence. To be safe, give proposals as whole lines but note which sentence changes. Simpler: give one fenced block per line replaced, with the full line.

Let me make proposal 2: replace L225 with the three-sentence version above, and say it writes in (i) the extension by the failing pair (H08's/D12.8's choice) and (ii) the reading that "originative" is predicated of the content a response introduces (FC83's fix), and (iii) allows μ to change nothing ("may be re-tuned"), leaving open whether μ must change t... Hmm if I write "may be re-tuned" that settles zero-step allowed. Alternatively "the transport is re-tuned within the population" keep as is and leave open. Better to keep the original wording for that clause and only fix the extension and originative sentence:

```
> L225 | A **selection response** to a failure at \((a,b)\) extends the history \(H\) of a selected transport by \((a,b)\) and lets \(\mu\) act: the transport is re-tuned within the population. A **construction response** introduces a new organization or a new transport with a construction trace. Only the second response introduces content that is originative under Part X.
```

And separately note that whether μ may return t unchanged stays open (no wording).

Hmm, but "introduces content that is originative" — Origin is defined for contents in Part X; so "content that is originative under Part X" uses the defined predicate. Fine.

Also is "Only the second response introduces content that is originative under Part X" a claim about what must happen to a candidate? No.

Proposal 3 (matter 3, L584): I don't have the full L584 sentence; only fragment "the signature of a selected transport meeting a change outside its history". I should give the fragment as the wording replaced? The rules say give the whole sentence as it would stand between fence lines, with the line it replaces. I only have the fragment; I'll say I have only the fragment and quote it, and propose the fragment's replacement, saying the rest of the line stands. Proposal: "the distinctive trace of a selected transport meeting a change outside its history" — need a word not colliding with a defined term. But what if "signature" at L584 in the everyday sense means: the characteristic mark by which one recognizes a selected transport under surprise. "trace" might itself be defined ("construction trace"!). Avoid "trace". Use "mark"? "profile"? "pattern" — is "pattern" defined? Unknown. "mark" is safest. Proposal: "the mark of a selected transport meeting a change outside its history". Hmm, "signature" everyday sense = distinctive mark; "mark" is fine. But maybe the defined term "signature" is used elsewhere for a pair of values/conditions. I'll caveat: if the defined sense is meant, keep the defined term and no change. I'll write: the everyday sense collides with a defined term; either the defined term stands and L584 must use it consistently, or the word changes to "mark". Give one proposal (mark) and note the alternative is no change if the defined sense is intended. Keep brief.

Now, (a) entries in more detail.

D12.7 · L220 (I50 scope):
- Text: "a violation occurs when fidelity fails at (a,b)" — fidelity is a defined condition (D5.7, not printed here). The maths carries Viol = ¬(F1 ∧ F2eq) and Viol⁺ = Viol ∧ ¬(A). Parting: the maths' narrow reading drops the hom clause of (F2) (I50's option b), and adds (A) in Viol⁺ (I50's option a). The words should stand: a violation is the failure of the defined fidelity condition at the pair, hom clause included, and (A) is not part of it. Reason why not the other: "fidelity" is a defined term; narrowing it silently changes the meaning of a defined condition; and decision S27 reads conflicts at the level of explanation without comparison to the world, which (A) (if it is agreement with the world) would import. But careful: I don't know (A)'s content. Let me phrase conditionally: "if (A) is the agreement of the answer with the target's actual value". Hmm, I50 says "(a) only (A) at (a,b) (a failed prediction)". So (A) is the failed-prediction condition. Fine, I can say: (A) is the failure of the prediction to match; the text ties violation to fidelity, not to prediction; so (A) stays out. But then "prediction, violation, surprise" — surprise = violation of selected transport outside H — where does the wrong prediction matter? Fine.

New wording if words change: none needed (words stand). But if the owner wants Viol⁺, the text must say: proposal? The task says "Where the words should change, give the new wording." Since I say words stand, no wording. But maybe I should add: the text should state that a wrong answer with fidelity intact is not a violation — proposal to add a sentence to L220? That writes in the narrow choice. I'll say: the words stand as they are; the maths must drop Viol⁺ from FC81's use or record which it carries. Keep.

D12.7 · L221/L217 (Surp): parting: "for some 𝒯, μ, H". Words stand (L217 fixes one H; L193 fixes determination by history). New wording for the maths, not text. Also note redundancy of "(a,b) ∉ H" (H07): no change; it states content.

D12.8 · L225: as above.

FC83 statement vs sentence: parting: formula predicates Origin of the content t' carries to; sentence predicates originativity of the response. Words stand in intent; formula should be rewritten: SelResp(t→t') ⇒ ¬Origin introduced by the response. Give as a note; text change covered by L225 proposal.

Now (b) FC81(d):

The counterexample model: a transport t that is faithful on H, violated at (set(H=2), b1_45) ∉ H which occurs; Con: yes (codomain represented); Sel: yes (no representation of t, H, survival condition). Surp: yes. So constructed ∧ surprised. Text L193: "exactly one of three provenances, determined by its history in the physical module" — the model gives t two provenances, so it is not a model of the text as written. Verdict: counterexample tells against the inventions I52 (Sel's clause too weak to carry exclusivity) and I53 (whose mechanism the definitions don't deliver), not against the text's claim at L223 ("a constructed one that fails ... is not surprise"). Change to the text that removes it: the exclusivity must be operative in the clauses — proposal 1 (L195 amendment). Or say no change needed since L193 removes it — but the model satisfies all quoted clauses; so the text's clauses alone permit it; L193 asserts it away. I'll say: the text's own clauses permit the model while L193 forbids it; the text as a whole is inconsistent; the change that removes it is proposal 1; and note proposal 1 writes in I53's mechanism.

Also mention: the claim (d) as formalized ("Con(t) ∧ Viol ⇒ ¬Surp") depends on exclusivity; with proposal 1 it follows.

FC82: same history; the model's "responses" are computed as sel(c, H+[x], h) with t' = t and no violation (H08), so what is computed is not the text's responses; the counterexample shows only that Sel and Con can hold on one history — same as FC78. Verdict: tells against the inventions and the model; not against the text's L225 claim. With proposal 1 and a model of an actual response, the claim stands. But also flag: if μ* allows t'=t and a construction response can produce a transport that survives on H∪{(a,b)} (i.e., selected), exclusivity is what rules it out. Fine.

FC83: computed not as claimed; the model stipulates Build's primitives and Attempt/New by hand (I56, I90) on a history not tied to the selection. Verdict: it is a counterexample to the formal statement as written (Origin of the content t' carries to), and shows the text's sentence asserts something its definitions don't deliver: the sentence, predicated of responses, is not the formula; nothing in Part X ties Origin to the response that delivers the content. So it tells against the text's wording (the claim is stated but unsupported by the text's own definitions). Change: proposal (L225 third sentence), which makes the claim about content introduced by the response. Also note that the counterexample rests on I56/I90 set by hand and shows what definitions allow, not physics.

(c):

I50 · L220: text settles? "fidelity fails" — defined term; so the scope is whatever D5.7 says. The invention's three options: the text settles them only through the definition of fidelity; where fidelity does not include (A), (A) is out. Say: the text settles the scope through the defined term; quote L220; the remaining question (hom clause) is settled by D5.7, not left open. If the owner wants the (A) reading, the text must say so; propose? Give the alternative wording? The rules: give exact wording for every proposal. I could offer: if the failed prediction is meant, replace L220. But I argued words stand; so no proposal. But to be helpful, maybe give one proposal that records the settled scope? I'll say no proposal: the words settle it.

I52 · L195: partial. Quote L195's sentences. What is settled: population, variation operator, history, survival condition, non-representation. Not settled: the type of μ (map to𝒫(𝒯) vs 𝒯), and the reading of "member of the history" (category slip). Proposals: (i) proposal 1 covers the occurrence reading; (ii) μ's type: leave open? Say: should stay open — the text's "variation operator on 𝒯" is consistent with both, and nothing in this part turns on it; but FC82/FC83's μ* choice should be recorded. Hmm, μ* is in H08. Fine.

I53 · L193: settled: "exactly one of three provenances, determined by its history in the physical module" settles one history and exclusivity; the invention's mechanism (Con excludes Sel via the represented-target clause) is not the text's content and fails; proposal 1 carries it.

I56 · L405: not settled (the three predicates read through the physical module); the text's L405 words are as quoted; whether they are primitives is an invention; should stay open (the physical module reads them), but the text should say that Build concerns the episode preparing content, not the response delivering it — covered by proposal on L225. Maybe say: stay open.

I90 · physical module: not settled and must stay open; the semantics takesΘ as given; the text's L193 ("determined by its history in the physical module") locates the work there. No wording.

I92: nothing to add (named in one line).

H07 · L217/L221: settled: L217 "where t is selected, history H" and L193; so the existential binding contradicts the text; no text change; the maths should bind H. Also the redundancy note: harmless; keep the clause.

H08 · L225: two choices: μ*'s zero steps and "new" = New (N) relative to a repertoire; and the model's non-modelling of responses. Settled? L225 "lets μ act: the transport is re-tuned within the population" doesn't fix whether μ must change t; "introduces a new organization or a new transport" fixes novelty as relative to...? Not fixed. Verdict: stay open on μ* (nothing here turns on it); for "new", the text should say relative to what — proposal? Could propose: "introduces, relative to the repertoire the episode already holds, a new organization or a new transport with a construction trace" — that writes in the New (N) reading (name it). Hmm, but "New" (N) is defined in Part X presumably as "no earlier content matches it" (FC83 says "no earlier content matches it (New)"). So "new" in L225 may already be the defined New? L225 says "a new organization or a new transport" — organization/transport novelty, not content novelty. So "new" is not obviously the defined N. The invention read ConResp's "new" as New (N) relative to a repertoire. Mismatch! ConResp(→ t'') := t'' or its codomain is new (D13.5) and Con(t''; h, e). D13.5 "new" — from Part X. So the maths used D13.5's "new" (novelty predicate). The text's "new" at L225 is about organization/transport. So a parting: the text's new organization/transport vs the maths' D13.5 novelty of content. Note in (a) or (c). I'll fold into H08 entry: the text should say what "new" is relative to — proposal: "introduces a new organization or a new transport, new relative to the repertoire of the agent, with a construction trace"? That writes in the invention. Or leave open. I'll propose a minimal wording naming the invention... Actually to save words: say it should stay open here (nothing in this part turns on it), and note the model must record which it carries. Hmm, but the task wants a definite answer per item: settle/quote, propose, or say why stay open. I'll say: leave open; the text's "new" is not tied to a repertoire by any line in this part (I rely on Part X's D13.5 not being quoted here), and picking one would write an invention into the text.

(d) hand attacks — write up:

FC80 · L572/L574:
(i) Against (b) under I71's other reading of "value": if the value of a transport at a pair is the pair's value in the target (what the world gives there) rather than the transport's own valuation, two targets D1, D2 differing at (a,b) give the same survivors on H agreeing with each other while the value at (a,b) differs. Then "the value is a function of (𝒯, H)" fails; it is a function of (𝒯, H, D). Model in full: two targets with ports...: Let me write a compact model: ports {p} of 2 values {0,1}; one boundary b0; one edit a1; C = {(a1,b0)}; H = {(a1,b0)}? Hmm need (a,b) ∈ C∖H. Let C = {(a1,b0), (a2,b0)}, H = {(a1,b0)}. 𝒯 = {t, t'} both faithful on H and agreeing at (a2,b0) in their own valuations (value 0); targets D1 gives0 at (a2,b0), D2 gives 1. So the shared value is 0 while "the value at (a,b)" read as the target's is 1 in D2. Rests on I71's alternative and on the reading of value as world-value. Note: values placed is the owner's question — don't propose moving them; I'm only showing the dependency. Fine.

(ii) Against (a)/(c) under an action law (I02's alternative): if edits act by a law (e.g., a group action on valuations), an alteration at one pair forces an alteration at every pair in its orbit; if the orbit of (a,b) meets H, no two survivors on H can differ at (a,b) while agreeing on H. Then the witness's shape ("underdetermined at (e1,b0)") needs an orbit avoiding H; the text's L572 claim survives only with that condition, and the step "altered at one pair gives another admitted relation" (I02) is what makes the small witness possible. Model: valuations {0,1} on one port; edits a1, a2 with law a2 = a1 applied twice? Simpler: the action law: changing the value at (a1,b0) forces the value at (a2,b0) = same; H = {(a2,b0)}; then any two survivors agreeing at (a2,b0) must agree at (a1,b0); so no underdetermination at (a1,b0). Rests on I02's alternative. And (c) was not tested; this is the hand attack.

FC81 · L580/L223: (a) and (c) "holds by construction" only under the fixed-H reading; under H07's "for some" binding, a transport whose own history is H = C can be witnessed as selected on H' ⊊ C in another population; then Surp holds while "H strictly smaller than C" fails for t's own history. Model: C = {(a1,b0),(a2,b0)}; t faithful on both pairs; the physical history gives t history H = C; but there is a population 𝒯' with a smaller history H' = {(a1,b0)} on which t survives; violated at (a2,b0); (a2,b0) ∉ H'. Under "for some", Surp holds; the text's claim about t's history fails. Rests on H07's binding.

(e) matter 3.

Also mention items with nothing to add lines.

Word count discipline. Let me write.

One more check on (a) for D12.8's ConResp: text "introduces a new organization or a new transport with a construction trace" vs formula ConResp(→ t'') := t'' or its codomain is new (D13.5) and Con(t''; h, e). Parting: the text's disjunction is over kinds of introduction (organization or transport); the formula's is over what is new (t'' or its codomain) and requires Con of a transport t''. If a construction response introduces an organization with no transport, the formula has no t'' to name. Note this; which stands: words; the formula should quantify over what is introduced. Keep brief within the L225 entry.

Also FC82's formal statement: "Under I53 no transport is the result of both (Sel(t') excludes Con(t'))" — fine.

Let me also mention in (a) D12.7's Pred extension (I51) — nothing to add; skip or name in the nothing-to-add line.

Now write the report. Keep headings `FC81 · L580` style ids.

Draft:

## (a)

**D12.7 · L220** — I50's three readings. Words stand...

**D12.7 · L217/L221** — Surp's "for some".

**D12.8 · L225** — extension; μ*; ConResp disjunction; proposal.

**FC83 · L225** (formal statement vs sentence) — mismatch; covered by proposal.

Nothing to add: D12.1, D12.2, D12.6, D13.3, and Pred's extension (I51).

Careful: the report format says entries headed by id and line, e.g. `FC05 · L119`, `I93 · L119`, `H05`, `U4`, `matter 5 · L109`. For (a) I can head by definition id: `D12.7 · L220`. Fine.

Write now, counting roughly.

Also must include: "Try by hand to break the claims that held (section 9...)" done in (d).

I'll write the report now with reasonable brevity.

Regarding S23 forbidden words: avoid "fits", "supports", "verifies", "true", "better than", "established", "reason to believe", "proof", "disprove", "more true", "authority", "foundation", "derived". Avoid "argument" except as "reasons why this and not that". I use "argument" in the header "Argument 3" as text's own name — fine (it's a quotation of the text's label). Avoid "believe". Avoid "accepted" without "tentatively". I'll use "carried", "held", "worked".

Also "say nothing about what must happen to a candidate": careful with wording like "the transport must...". Fine.

Let me write.

Final word target ~2800. Go.