Let me start by understanding the task. I need to audit the reading under audit against the theory's text, row by row, starting each row from my blind reading. The theory's own sentences are my authority.

Let me first understand the structure of what I need to produce:

Part 1: Full records for O1-O52 (all 52 cases)
Part 2: Wait, no. Part 1 lists O1-O52, but then Part 2 says "Every other row, in one line each" - but Part 1 covers all 52. Let me re-read.

"## Part 1 - The rows to audit in full
These rows: O1, O2, O3, ..., O52."

So Part 1 covers ALL 52 cases. Then Part 2 says "For each case outside the Part 1 list" - but there are none outside the list since the list is O1-O52. So Part 2 would have COUNT: 0? Wait, that doesn't make sense. Let me re-read.

Hmm, actually looking at the format:
- Part 1: rows O1-O52 in full
- Part 2: "For each case outside the Part 1 list, in order, one line" - since Part 1 covers all 52, Part 2 has zero rows.

Wait, but that seems odd. Let me re-read the instruction. "These rows: O1, O2, ..., O52." - that's all 52 cases. So Part 2 would be empty (count 0). And Part 3 is about what the reading under audit left unmarked.

Actually wait - I need to re-read. The task says "Part 1 - The rows to audit in full: These rows: O1...O52". So all 52 are in Part 1. Part 2 covers cases outside Part 1, which is none. So Part 2 is empty.

Hmm, but the template for Part 2 shows `O7: BLIND MARK <mark> ; TESTER MARK <mark> ; SAME or DIFFERENT`. This suggests Part 2 was designed for a subset. But the instruction clearly says Part 1 covers O1-O52. So Part 2 has count 0.

Actually, wait. Let me re-read more carefully. The instruction says:

"## Part 1 - The rows to audit in full
These rows: O1, O2, O3, O4, O5, O6, O7, O8, O9, O10, O11, O12, O13, O14, O15, O16, O17, O18, O19, O20, O21, O22, O23, O24, O25, O26, O27, O28, O29, O30, O31, O32, O33, O34, O35, O36, O37, O38, O39, O40, O41, O42, O43, O44, O45, O46, O47, O48, O49, O50, O51, O52."

Yes, all 52.

"## Part 2 - Every other row, in one line each
For each case outside the Part 1 list, in order, one line"

So Part 2 = 0 rows. OK.

Now let me work through each case. This is a very long task. Let me be systematic.

For each case in Part 1, I need:
```
### O1
BLIND: <my blind reading's findings, 1-2 sentences>
BLIND MARK: <mark from my blind reading>
TESTER MARK: <the MARK line from the reading under audit>
ON VERDICT: <AGREE or DISAGREE with the other reader's VERDICT>, <one sentence where DISAGREE>
ON QUOTES: <SUPPORTS, PARTLY or FAILS>, <one sentence>
ON SEARCH: <for SILENT rows, run the search and write CONFIRMED or FOUND with missed sentence; else NONE>
ON MARK: <AGREE or DISAGREE with the other reader's MARK>
YOUR MARK: <my mark after reading both>
QUOTE: "<sentence>" (Part - heading)
QUOTE: up to 3 lines
WHY: <one sentence>
```

Let me work through the key disagreements first, then go row by row.

Let me think about the main areas where my blind readings differ from the reading under audit:

O1: Tester says SILENT. My blind reading also finds the theory doesn't settle whether Bruno has an explanation (no component structure given) and whether the series is a "retreat". My blind mark would be SILENT too. Actually, let me think. The fixed verdict says "Bruno has no explanation of the floods. Each limit is honest taken alone, and the series as a whole is a retreat."

My blind reading says: each restatement is a new claim at a new index; exclusions are stated so non-vacuity's scope requirement is met; whether any restated rule is an account is not settled (no component structure given); whether each narrowing is appropriate is a substantive, criticizable part.

So my blind reading is SILENT on "no explanation" (can't settle without component structure) and SILENT on "retreat" (the theory records new claims at new indices but doesn't call it a retreat). Actually the theory does say the series is a series of new claims - the fixed verdict calls it a "retreat". Does the theory support calling it a retreat? The theory says a narrowing adopted after a failure is a new claim at a new index. It doesn't characterize a series of narrowings as a "retreat". But the honest reading: the theory's sentence "a narrowing adopted after a failure is a new claim at a new index" does describe what happened. The fixed verdict's finding "the series as a whole is a retreat" - is that supported? The theory doesn't use the word "retreat". But the structure it describes (each failure leads to a new narrowed claim) matches. Hmm.

Actually, the fixed verdict has two points: (1) Bruno has no explanation; (2) each limit is honest taken alone, and the series as a whole is a retreat.

My blind reading: the theory can't settle whether any restated rule is an account (no component structure), so it can't settle "no explanation". It records each as a new claim at a new index. The "retreat" characterization - the theory describes the series accurately but whether it's a "retreat" depends on whether the narrowings are appropriate, which is a criticizable input.

So my blind mark: SILENT. The tester's mark: SILENT. I'd agree with the tester's mark.

But wait - the tester's VERDICT says "It therefore finds neither 'no explanation' nor 'a retreat'." That matches my reading. ON VERDICT: AGREE.

ON QUOTES: The tester quotes Part III scope sentences and Part XIV declared inputs. Do these support the verdict? The first quote: "An account at a stated scope answers the question asked at that scope; it does not answer a broader question that failed, and a narrowing adopted after a failure is a new claim at a new index (Part VIII)." This supports that each restatement is a new claim. The second: "What makes a restriction appropriate... substantive, criticizable... supplies no rule that certifies it." This supports leaving appropriateness open. The third: Part XIV declared inputs - supports leaving it open where input missing. These support the SILENT mark. SUPPORTS.

ON SEARCH: The tester recorded a search: "Parts 0, III, V, VIII, XIV; looked for 'retreat', 'narrowing', 'restriction appropriate', 'stated scope', 'series', 'prediction is explanation'." I need to run this search on the text. Did the search miss anything? Let me check the theory for these terms.

"retreat" - not in the theory. "narrowing" - Part III: "a narrowing adopted after a failure is a new claim at a new index". Also Part XI: "A later narrowing of that contract to rescue adequacy is a new claim at a new index, and does not retroactively satisfy (EK)." The search listed Parts 0, III, V, VIII, XIV - it missed Part XI! Part XI has the sentence about narrowing. Would that change the verdict? The Part XI sentence is about (EK) and contracts - "A later narrowing of that contract to rescue adequacy is a new claim at a new index, and does not retroactively satisfy (EK)." That's about knowledge creation, not directly about Bruno. Hmm, it's related but doesn't decide the "retreat" point.

Actually, let me check: does the theory contain any sentence that would decide whether the series is a "retreat"? I don't think so. The theory describes each narrowing as a new claim. Whether the series is a retreat is a characterization the theory doesn't make. So the search missed the Part XI sentence, but it doesn't change the verdict. So ON SEARCH: FOUND with the Part XI sentence quoted? The instruction says "for a row the other reader marked SILENT, run its recorded search on the text and write CONFIRMED, or FOUND with the sentence the search missed, quoted". So if the search missed a sentence, I write FOUND and quote it. The search covered Parts 0, III, V, VIII, XIV for "narrowing" - and missed Part XI's "A later narrowing of that contract to rescue adequacy is a new claim at a new index". So FOUND.

Hmm wait, but does the missed sentence matter? The instruction just says to report it. Let me quote it: "A later narrowing of that contract to rescue adequacy is a new claim at a new index, and does not retroactively satisfy (EK)." (Part XI - Progress, knowledge, and the normative). Actually, this sentence is about narrowing a contract to rescue adequacy, which is relevant to O1's pattern. It confirms the "new claim at new index" reading but doesn't settle "retreat". So the search missed it but it doesn't change the mark. I'll report FOUND.

Actually, let me reconsider. The search terms were "retreat", "narrowing", "restriction appropriate", "stated scope", "series", "prediction is explanation". The search covered Parts 0, III, V, VIII, XIV. Let me verify each term:

- "retreat": not in the theory anywhere. CONFIRMED absent.
- "narrowing": Part III (covered) and Part XI (missed). FOUND.
- "restriction appropriate": Part III "What makes a restriction appropriate to the question asked is a substantive, criticizable part of the claim" - covered.
- "stated scope": Part III - covered.
- "series": not sure. Let me think... I don't recall "series" in a relevant sense.
- "prediction is explanation": Part 0 "It does not say prediction is explanation." - covered (Part 0).

So the search missed the Part XI "narrowing" sentence. ON SEARCH: FOUND with "A later narrowing of that contract to rescue adequacy is a new claim at a new index, and does not retroactively satisfy (EK)." (Part XI).

Hmm, but actually I should double-check whether there are other missed occurrences. Part VIII: "A new index is a new claim." - that's about historical index, related. The search included Part VIII though. OK.

So for O1: ON SEARCH: FOUND, "A later narrowing of that contract to rescue adequacy is a new claim at a new index, and does not retroactively satisfy (EK)." (Part XI - Progress, knowledge, and the normative)

Wait, but I need to be careful. Does this missed sentence actually bear on the case? It's about (EK) - created explanatory knowledge. Bruno is not an (EK) case. The sentence says a narrowing to rescue adequacy is a new claim at a new index and doesn't retroactively satisfy (EK). This is consistent with the tester's verdict. So it doesn't change the mark. But the instruction says to report FOUND if the search missed a sentence. Hmm, but should I report it if it's irrelevant? The instruction: "run its recorded search on the text and write CONFIRMED, or FOUND with the sentence the search missed, quoted". I think the intent is: if the search missed a sentence that the search's own terms should have found, report it. Since "narrowing" was a search term and the Part XI sentence contains "narrowing", the search missed it. FOUND.

Actually, let me reconsider whether to be strict about this. The search was for terms, and one term ("narrowing") appears in Part XI which wasn't in the searched parts. So FOUND. I'll report it.

OK this is going to be a very long exercise. Let me be efficient but careful. Let me go through each case, determine my blind mark, compare with the tester, and fill in the fields.

Let me first tabulate the tester's marks:
- O1: SILENT
- O2: AGREE
- O3: AGREE
- O4: AGREE
- O5: SILENT
- O6: AGREE
- O7: AGREE
- O8: AGREE
- O9: AGREE
- O10: AGREE
- O11: AGREE
- O12: SILENT
- O13: AGREE
- O14: AGREE
- O15: SPLIT
- O16: AGREE
- O17: SILENT
- O18: AGREE
- O19: AGREE
- O20: AGREE
- O21: SILENT
- O22: AGREE
- O23: AGREE
- O24: AGREE
- O25: AGREE
- O26: AGREE
- O27: SILENT
- O28: AGREE
- O29: AGREE
- O30: SILENT
- O31: AGREE
- O32: DISAGREE
- O33: AGREE
- O34: AGREE
- O35: SILENT
- O36: AGREE
- O37: AGREE
- O38: AGREE
- O39: AGREE
- O40: AGREE
- O41: AGREE
- O42: AGREE
- O43: AGREE
- O44: AGREE
- O45: AGREE
- O46: AGREE
- O47: AGREE
- O48: AGREE
- O49: AGREE
- O50: SILENT
- O51: AGREE
- O52: AGREE

Now let me determine my blind marks for each case. My blind readings are given. Let me extract the mark each would earn against the fixed verdict.

The marks rules:
1. CASE DISPUTED: the situation itself, read in ordinary terms before any theory, decides a point against the fixed verdict.
2. DISAGREE: on at least one point, the theory's verdict reaches a different finding from the fixed verdict.
3. SPLIT: on at least one point, the theory's sentences support two readings that reach different findings, and the text leaves the choice open.
4. SILENT: on at least one point, the theory leaves the finding open (input unstated or sentences stop short).
5. AGREE: on every point, the theory's verdict reaches the same finding as the fixed verdict.

Let me go case by case based on my blind readings:

O1: My blind reading says the theory can't settle whether Bruno has an explanation (no component structure) and leaves appropriateness of narrowings open. The fixed verdict says "no explanation" and "a retreat". My reading: SILENT (the theory stops short of both findings). Actually wait - does my blind reading reach "no explanation"? No - it says "whether any restated rule is an account is not settled by its success rate... the situation gives no component structure". So the theory can't say "no explanation" either. The fixed verdict's finding is "no explanation". The theory doesn't reach that finding - it leaves it open. So SILENT. My blind mark: SILENT.

Hmm, but actually, is there a reading where the theory DOES support "no explanation"? The theory says a table of observed answers fails (F1). If Bruno's rule is just a table of observed answers (a rule that predicts from observed data without component structure), then it fails (F1) and he has no explanation. The situation says "Bruno sells a rule for predicting when the village stream floods" - it's a prediction rule. The theory says "It does not say prediction is explanation." And a table of observed answers fails (F1). So arguably the theory DOES support "no explanation" if the rule is a table. But my blind reading explicitly said "whether any restated rule has component structure responding to the admitted changes, or is only a table of observed answers" is OPEN. So my blind reading treated it as open. Hmm.

Actually, thinking about it more: the situation describes a "rule for predicting" - on the theory's terms, a rule that predicts from observed data without component structure is a table of observed answers, which fails (F1). But the situation doesn't tell us the rule's internal structure. A "rule" could be a genuine dependence (like Greta's yeast) or a table. My blind reading left this open. So my blind mark is SILENT.

But wait - the fixed verdict's second point: "the series as a whole is a retreat". The theory describes each narrowing as a new claim at a new index. Does it support calling the series a "retreat"? The theory doesn't characterize series. Hmm. Actually, the theory's framework does imply that each restatement is a new claim that doesn't answer the broader failed question. The fixed verdict's "retreat" is a characterization of the series. The theory's sentence "an account at a stated scope answers the question asked at that scope; it does not answer a broader question that failed" - this supports that the restated rules don't answer the original broad question. And "a narrowing adopted after a failure is a new claim at a new index" describes the series. So the theory supports the structure of the fixed verdict's second point. But whether it's a "retreat" (pejorative) vs. legitimate narrowing depends on appropriateness, which is open.

Hmm, this is getting complicated. Let me simplify: my blind reading's OPEN list includes "whether each narrowing is appropriate to the question asked". The fixed verdict says "each limit is honest taken alone, and the series as a whole is a retreat" - i.e., the series is NOT legitimate, it's a retreat. The theory leaves appropriateness open. So on that point, SILENT. And on "no explanation", my blind reading leaves it open too. So SILENT.

Actually hold on. Let me reconsider. The fixed verdict's first point "Bruno has no explanation of the floods" - is this a point the theory can settle? My blind reading says the situation gives no component structure, so we can't tell if the rule satisfies (F1). But actually - the theory says a rule that is merely a table of observed answers fails (F1). The situation says Bruno's rule is a "rule for predicting". Hmm, but even a prediction rule could have component structure. My blind reading left it open. So SILENT.

Wait, but there's another angle. Even if the rule has component structure and is faithful within its limits, the fixed verdict says "Bruno has no explanation of the floods" - meaning no explanation of the floods generally, only of narrow scopes. The theory would say: each restated rule is an account of its own narrow question, and none answers the broad question. So the theory supports "Bruno has no explanation of the floods [as a whole]" in the sense that no rule answers the broad question. Hmm. But the theory also says an account at a stated scope is an account of that scoped question. So within its limits, a faithful rule would be an explanation. The fixed verdict says "Bruno has no explanation of the floods" - if this means no explanation of the floods at the broad scope, the theory agrees. If it means no explanation at all, the theory would say each scoped rule is an account of its scoped question.

This is exactly the tester's AGAINST note: "Part III lets each honestly scoped rule answer 'the question asked at that scope', so a faithful rule would be an explanation within its limits, and that contradicts 'no explanation'". Hmm, but the tester's HOLDS says "the case never says the rule has components that are faithful under intervention, so the theory cannot credit it with an account either."

OK so the tester's position: SILENT, because the theory can't settle whether Bruno has an explanation. I think that's right given my blind reading. My blind mark: SILENT.

Hmm, wait. Let me reconsider once more. Actually, I think there's a strong argument that the theory DOES support "no explanation of the floods" for the series as a whole: no restated rule answers the broad question (Part III: "it does not answer a broader question that failed"). And each narrowing is a new claim. So the series gives no account of the floods at the original scope. The fixed verdict's "no explanation of the floods" is satisfied. But then "the series as a whole is a retreat" - the theory describes the series as successive new claims at narrower scopes, which is a retreat in the sense that the scope keeps shrinking. But whether each narrowing is appropriate is open. The fixed verdict says "each limit is honest taken alone" (each is stated, checkable) - the theory agrees the limits are stated. "and the series as a whole is a retreat" - the theory describes it as a series of new claims, but doesn't judge it a retreat.

Ugh. OK, I think the cleanest reading: the theory supports "no explanation of the broad question" but leaves open whether each scoped rule is an account of its scoped question, and leaves open whether the series is a "retreat" (inappropriate) vs. legitimate narrowing. So there's a mix. The fixed verdict's finding "Bruno has no explanation of the floods" - if read as "no explanation of the floods at the broad scope", AGREE; if read as "no explanation at all", the theory would disagree (each scoped rule could be an account). Hmm.

Actually, the fixed verdict says "Bruno has no explanation of the floods." The floods = the phenomenon generally. Each restated rule is right inside its limits. So does Bruno have an explanation of the floods? The fixed verdict says no. The theory: each scoped rule answers its scoped question; none answers the broad question. So "no explanation of the floods [generally]" is supported. But the theory can't verify the scoped rules are accounts (no component structure). So it's SILENT on whether the scoped rules are accounts, but it does support "no explanation of the floods" as no account of the broad question.

Hmm, I think I'm overcomplicating. Let me just go with: my blind reading found the theory leaves open whether the rule has component structure (so can't confirm "no explanation" in the strong sense) and leaves open appropriateness (so can't confirm "retreat"). The theory does support that each narrowing is a new claim at a new index and none answers the broad question. So on the point "Bruno has no explanation of the floods" - the theory supports "no account of the broad question" which reaches the fixed verdict's finding. On "the series is a retreat" - the theory leaves the appropriateness open.

Hmm, so is it AGREE on the first point and SILENT on the second? Then overall SILENT (since at least one point is left open). Yes, SILENT.

Wait, but actually - does the theory reach "Bruno has no explanation of the floods"? Let me think about what the theory's verdict would be. The theory's verdict: "Each restatement is a new claim at a new index; none answers the broad question; whether any is an account of its scoped question depends on its component structure, which is unstated; whether the narrowings are appropriate is a criticizable input." The fixed verdict: "Bruno has no explanation of the floods. Each limit is honest taken alone, and the series as a whole is a retreat."

The theory's verdict reaches "no explanation of the broad question" (same finding as "no explanation of the floods" if that's what it means). But it doesn't reach "the series is a retreat" - it records the series without judging. So SILENT on the second point. Overall: SILENT.

OK, my blind mark for O1: SILENT. Tester: SILENT. ON MARK: AGREE.

Let me now speed up. I'll go through each case and determine: (a) my blind mark, (b) whether I agree with tester's verdict, quotes, mark.

O2: Fixed verdict: "Carla has explained the bell. She has explained nothing about the tide. The almanac is the answer written down."

My blind reading: the almanac is a table of observed answers, fails (F1). The bell mechanism answers a different question. Packaging a genuine dependence answering a different question beside a table doesn't repair it. So the theory reaches: Carla has explained the bell (the mechanism is a genuine dependence answering the bell question), and nothing about the tide (the almanac fails (F1)). This matches the fixed verdict. My blind mark: AGREE.

Wait, but my blind reading's OPEN says: "Whether the almanac, at some grain, genuinely encodes the harbour's response to every admitted change, in which case it would satisfy (F1) as a decomposition does". Hmm. So my blind reading left open whether the almanac is more than a table. If the almanac genuinely encodes responses, it would be an account, contradicting "explained nothing about the tide". So is my blind mark SILENT?

Hmm. The situation says "the printed almanac of high and low water for every day". That's a table of observed answers. The theory says a table of observed answers fails (F1). But a table that genuinely encodes responses is an account. The situation doesn't say the almanac encodes responses to changes. So on the ordinary reading, it's a table of observed answers. My blind reading said the theory treats it as a table failing (F1), with the open question being whether at some grain it's more. But the fixed verdict says "explained nothing about the tide". 

I think my blind reading treats the almanac as a table of observed answers (fails F1), reaching "explained nothing about the tide", with an open sub-question about whether it could be more. The fixed verdict's finding is reached. So AGREE? Or is it SILENT because of the open question?

Hmm. The open question in my blind reading is a speculative "whether at some grain..." - it's not something the case leaves unstated that decides the point. The situation describes a printed almanac of high and low water - that IS a table of observed answers. The theory says such a table fails (F1). So the theory reaches "explained nothing about the tide". The open question is about a hypothetical the case doesn't present. I'll say my blind mark: AGREE.

Actually, the tester's AGAINST note raises the non-circular dependence point: removing the bell changes what the account establishes. The tester's HOLDS says the answer profile belongs to the tide question, so removing the bell leaves it unchanged. I think that's right - the bell answers a different question, so it's not part of the tide answer profile. The theory supports AGREE.

But wait - the theory places the failure in (F1) (table of observed answers) and non-circular dependence ("packaging a genuine dependence that answers a different question beside it does not repair this"). The fixed verdict's findings are all reached. AGREE.

My blind mark: AGREE. Tester: AGREE. ON MARK: AGREE.

O3: Fixed verdict: "Nadia built something new: a part that stands for cards she has never observed. That is construction, and it is her own."

My blind reading: the tally is a construction response introducing a new organization with persistence components. If built by an owned subhistory with nontrivial binding and not in prior repertoire, (G) holds. Open: whether the construction witness is owned and nontrivial; whether the content was new; whether the population admitted a differing survivor.

Hmm. The fixed verdict says "That is construction, and it is her own." My blind reading says it's a construction response IF the witness is owned, nontrivial, and new. The situation says she started keeping a tally - nobody told her, she wasn't shown hidden hands. So on the ordinary boundary of a person, it's her own. The theory's sentence "A first representation may be constructed from an available problem without prior observation of what it represents" supports that this is construction.

But my blind reading listed OPEN whether the construction witness is owned by Nadia and nontrivial. Does that make it SILENT? The situation says nobody told her hands exist, she learned by watching, and one evening she started keeping a tally. The theory says a first representation may be constructed from an available problem without prior observation. The construction is her own in the ordinary sense (nobody supplied it). The theory's ownership requires the subhistory to run inside the declared boundary - for a person, the ordinary boundary. The situation supports that.

Hmm, my blind reading was cautious. But the fixed verdict's findings are: (1) she built something new - a part standing for unobserved cards; (2) that is construction; (3) it is her own. The theory supports all three: the tally is a new organization standing for unobserved cards (like Derivation 10's persistence components), it's a construction response (not selection), and nobody supplied it from outside so it's her own on the ordinary boundary.

But strictly, the theory requires the construction witness (owned subhistory, nontrivial binding). The situation gives: she started keeping a tally, her predictions improved. Is the binding nontrivial? "A small binding newly prepared inside received content is construction of that binding" - the tally binds unobserved cards to a waiting state. That's a nontrivial binding. Is it owned? She did it herself. So yes.

I think my blind reading supports AGREE, with the OPEN items being confirmable from the situation. Actually, the OPEN items are: owned/nontrivial (the situation supports: she did it herself, it's a new binding), new (yes, she never had it before), population (relevant to whether her earlier surprise was Derivation 3 underdetermination - not needed for the construction finding).

Hmm, but my blind reading also said "(EK) holds additionally requires... which the situation does not give" - but the fixed verdict doesn't claim (EK), just construction. So AGREE.

Wait, let me reconsider. My blind reading says "If the tally was built by an owned subhistory containing a nontrivial binding construction and was not in her prior repertoire, then (G) holds and the act is originative". The conditional is satisfied by the situation. So the theory reaches the fixed verdict's finding. AGREE.

My blind mark: AGREE. Tester: AGREE. ON MARK: AGREE.

Hmm, but the tester's AGAINST says SILENT because Build requires a declared boundary and none is declared. The tester's HOLDS says the situation says nobody told her, so no outside contribution exists for a boundary to exclude. I think the tester's HOLDS is right - the situation establishes no outside contribution, so on the ordinary reading it's her own. The theory doesn't require a declared boundary to conclude "her own" when there's no candidate outside contribution. Actually, the theory does say ownership is relative to a declared boundary... but for a person acting alone, the ordinary boundary applies. Hmm.

Actually, let me think about this more carefully. The theory says "The subhistory in Build is owned by s when its processes run inside the system boundary and resource contract declared for s (Part XII)." So ownership requires a declared boundary. For a person, we'd ordinarily take the person's body as the boundary. The situation doesn't declare one. But the fixed verdict says "it is her own" - and there's no competing claim. The theory's verdict would be: it's construction, and no outside contribution is present, so it's her own on the ordinary boundary. I think AGREE is defensible.

But strictly, if we require a declared boundary and none is declared, it's SILENT. Hmm. The tester's AGAINST raises this and rejects it. I think the tester is right to reject it because the situation excludes any outside contribution. So AGREE.

My blind mark: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O4: Fixed verdict: "Dario has a useful measure and a reliable prediction. He has said almost nothing about why the syrup causes sleep. The index is the sleepiness itself, observed in a mouse."

My blind reading: the index has a measurement's signature; recalibration is decisive. The index answers the identification question, not the production question. Presented as explanation, it's identification presented as production, failing (F2) under the production contract. Open: whether any contract makes the index a causal assignment; whether dilution reflects component structure at finer grain.

The fixed verdict's findings: (1) useful measure and reliable prediction - the theory agrees (identification question answered with reliable prediction); (2) said almost nothing about why the syrup causes sleep - the theory agrees (production question not answered); (3) the index is the sleepiness itself, observed in a mouse - the theory agrees (the index measures the sleep response; non-circular dependence fails because the answer appears as a component).

Hmm, does the theory reach "the index is the sleepiness itself, observed in a mouse"? The theory says the index has a measurement's signature - it reads the sleep response. And non-circular dependence: the answer (sleep) appears as a component (the index reading). So yes, the theory reaches that the index restates the outcome. AGREE.

But wait - my blind reading says the theory's verdict is that it fails (F2) under the production contract, i.e., identification presented as production. The fixed verdict says "He has said almost nothing about why the syrup causes sleep." The theory reaches the same finding. AGREE.

Hmm, but there's a subtlety: the dilution intervention changes both the index and sleep. Does that make the index a causal assignment? My blind reading's OPEN raises this. The tester's AGAINST raises it too, and HOLDS rejects it: dilution intervenes on the syrup, the reading follows it, and recalibration shows the reading produces nothing. So the index is a measurement, not a cause. AGREE.

My blind mark: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O5: Fixed verdict: "This is a legitimate narrowing. The limit follows from a part of her account."

My blind reading: the warm-room restatement is backed by a component (yeast) whose removal changes the answer profile - the witness non-circular dependence requires. The Tuesday restatement has no such component. Both are new claims at new indices. The semantics records each restriction and supplies no rule certifying appropriateness. Open: whether the Tuesday exclusion is stated with a scope; whether the yeast component's response is faithful at the declared grain.

The fixed verdict: "This is a legitimate narrowing. The limit follows from a part of her account." My blind reading: the theory records the restriction and supplies no rule certifying it. So does the theory reach "legitimate narrowing"? The theory says appropriateness is a substantive, criticizable part of the claim with no certifying rule. So the theory does NOT certify the narrowing as legitimate. It records it. So the theory stops short of "legitimate".

Hmm, but the theory does provide the machinery: the yeast component is a non-circular dependence witness. The fixed verdict says "the limit follows from a part of her account" - the theory agrees that the yeast component is a part whose removal changes the answer. So on the point "the limit follows from a part of her account", the theory AGREES. On "this is a legitimate narrowing" - the theory leaves the appropriateness to a criticizable input.

So is it SILENT (on "legitimate") or AGREE (on "follows from a part")? The fixed verdict has two points: (1) legitimate narrowing; (2) the limit follows from a part of her account. On (2), AGREE. On (1), the theory doesn't certify legitimacy - SILENT.

Hmm, but actually - does the theory's non-circular dependence condition provide the ground for legitimacy? The theory says non-circular dependence requires an edit that removes a block of commitments and changes the answer profile. Greta's warm-room limit has such a witness (the yeast). So the theory's verdict would be: the narrowing is backed by a non-circular dependence witness. Is that the same as "legitimate narrowing"? The fixed verdict's "legitimate" means the narrowing is justified, not arbitrary. The theory's non-circular dependence witness is exactly what distinguishes a justified narrowing from an arbitrary one (like the Tuesday limit, which has no witness). So the theory does reach "legitimate narrowing" in the sense that the limit follows from a component.

Hmm, but the theory explicitly says "the semantics records the restriction and supplies no rule that certifies it". So it doesn't certify. But it does provide the witness condition. I think the theory's verdict is: the warm-room narrowing has a non-circular dependence witness (the yeast component), which is what makes it a legitimate narrowing rather than an arbitrary one; the Tuesday alternative would have no such witness. That reaches the fixed verdict's finding.

But my blind reading emphasized the OPEN: "whether each narrowing is appropriate to the question asked". Hmm. Actually, my blind reading says: "Both are new claims at new indices after failures; the semantics records each restriction and supplies no rule certifying its appropriateness, leaving each open to a criticism that supplies the excluded change."

So my blind reading says the theory leaves appropriateness open. That means my blind mark is SILENT on "legitimate narrowing". 

Hmm, but wait. Let me re-read the fixed verdict: "This is a legitimate narrowing. The limit follows from a part of her account." The theory's sentences: "There exists (a,b) in C that removes or replaces a nonempty block of Γ while preserving the other boundary conditions, under which the answer profile changes or ceases to be determined in the claimed way." - this is the non-circular dependence witness. Greta's account has this (the yeast). So the theory's verdict: the narrowing is backed by a component, satisfying non-circular dependence. That reaches "the limit follows from a part of her account" and supports "legitimate narrowing".

But "What makes a restriction appropriate to the question asked is a substantive, criticizable part of the claim; the semantics records the restriction and supplies no rule that certifies it." - this says the theory doesn't certify appropriateness. So the theory's verdict is: the narrowing is recorded, backed by a component (non-circular dependence satisfied), but its appropriateness is criticizable, not certified.

Does that reach the fixed verdict's "legitimate narrowing"? The fixed verdict asserts it IS legitimate. The theory says it's backed by a component but doesn't certify it. So the theory stops short of asserting legitimacy. SILENT? Or does the theory's non-circular dependence witness constitute the finding?

I think this is genuinely a judgment call. The tester says SILENT. My blind reading says the theory records without certifying. I'll go with SILENT for my blind mark, agreeing with the tester.

Hmm, wait. Actually, let me reconsider. The theory's non-circular dependence condition is a real condition that the narrowing meets. The fixed verdict says "the limit follows from a part of her account" - the theory's witness condition is exactly this. And "This is a legitimate narrowing" - the theory's verdict would be that the narrowing satisfies non-circular dependence (unlike the Tuesday alternative). Is satisfying non-circular dependence the same as being legitimate? The theory says non-circular dependence is one of the four/five conditions of Account. A narrowing that satisfies it is... an account at its scope. Hmm.

Actually, I think the theory does reach the fixed verdict here. The fixed verdict's point is that the warm-room limit is different from the Tuesday limit because the warm-room limit follows from a component. The theory's non-circular dependence condition distinguishes exactly this: the yeast component's removal changes the answer, so the limit is grounded; the Tuesday limit has no such component. The theory's verdict: the warm-room narrowing is grounded in a component (non-circular dependence satisfied), the Tuesday narrowing would not be. That reaches "the limit follows from a part of her account" and supports "legitimate narrowing".

But the theory's sentence "supplies no rule that certifies it" - this is about the appropriateness of the restriction to the question asked, which is a separate matter from non-circular dependence. Non-circular dependence is about whether the answer depends on the commitments; appropriateness is about whether the scope matches the question. Greta's question was presumably "why does my dough double in two hours?" and the narrowing to warm rooms is a restriction of that question. Whether that restriction is appropriate to the original question is the criticizable part.

Hmm. OK, I think the cleanest reading: the theory reaches "the limit follows from a part of her account" (non-circular dependence witness) but leaves open whether the narrowing is "legitimate" (appropriate to the question asked). So on one point AGREE, on the other SILENT. Overall: SILENT.

The tester says SILENT. I'll agree. My blind mark: SILENT.

Hmm, but actually, I want to reconsider whether the theory reaches "legitimate narrowing". The word "legitimate" in the fixed verdict means justified/warranted. The theory provides the witness condition as the ground. If the witness is present, the narrowing is grounded. Is grounded = legitimate? I think for the purposes of this exercise, the theory's verdict is that the narrowing is recorded and backed by a component, but the theory explicitly declines to certify appropriateness. So SILENT. OK, moving on. My blind mark: SILENT. Tester: SILENT. ON MARK: AGREE.

Wait, but the tester's VERDICT says "So the theory records the narrowing without declaring it legitimate." And the tester's AGAINST says AGREE because "the first quotation calls appropriateness a 'substantive' part of the claim, and Greta's yeast component supplies exactly that substance; so the theory endorses the narrowing." The tester's HOLDS rejects this: "the same sentence says the semantics 'supplies no rule that certifies it', so the endorsement is the reader's, not the theory's."

I think the tester's HOLDS is correct. The theory doesn't endorse; it records. So SILENT. ON VERDICT: AGREE with the tester.

O6: Fixed verdict: "Her first statement is a good reason to believe there is a fever. Her second statement mistakes the instrument for the illness."

My blind reading: first claim is identification resting on a measurement; second claim is a causal assignment whose signature fails. The theory reaches both findings. AGREE.

Wait, "a good reason to believe there is a fever" - does the theory have a predicate for "good reason"? The tester's AGAINST raises this: "The theory has no predicate for 'good reason to believe', so the first finding might read as SILENT." The tester's HOLDS: "Part III's identification question is exactly what the first statement answers." I think the tester is right - the identification question is what the first statement answers, so the theory reaches "good reason to believe" in the sense of a valid identification. AGREE.

My blind mark: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O7: Fixed verdict: "Ines has a genuine explanation, a coarse one. The salt is what produced the melting."

My blind reading: coarse dependence not rejected for omitting finer workings; strength fixed by contract; the component's response tracks the target's. AGREE.

But my blind reading's OPEN: the provenance of the salt-ice transport (selected, constructed, declared); whether the contract contains the sweep edit. Hmm. Does the theory need the provenance to say "genuine explanation"? Account (E) requires fidelity conditions, not provenance. Provenance matters for representation (R) and creativity, not for Account. So the theory can say it's an account (genuine explanation) based on (E) alone. The sweep edit is in the situation ("Sweep the salt off at once and the ice stays"), so the contract contains it. AGREE.

My blind mark: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O8: Fixed verdict: "a good explanation with an honest scope. The limit says what she is asking about."

My blind reading: scoped from the start; account answers the question asked at that scope; saying nothing about other bakeries is a consequence of the index. Open: whether (F1) and (F2) hold; whether the transport is non-declared.

Hmm. The fixed verdict says "a good explanation". The theory's verdict: it's an account at its scope IF (F1) and (F2) hold, which the situation doesn't verify. So is it SILENT on "good explanation"? The tester's AGAINST: "the theory ranks no account as 'good' and the case does not show fidelity under each admitted change." The tester's HOLDS: "the situation presents the load dependence as correct, and 'good' here means only an adequate account at its scope."

Hmm. The situation says "Petra explains why the fuse trips... their combined draw exceeds what the old wiring carries." The situation presents this as correct. The theory's verdict: an account at a stated scope answers the question asked at that scope. Whether it satisfies (F1)/(F2) depends on the component behavior, which the situation presents as correct. I think the theory reaches "a good explanation with an honest scope" in the sense that the scope is honest (stated from the start) and the account is adequate (presented as correct). 

But strictly, (F1) and (F2) are conditions on the supplied relations under changes, and the situation doesn't give the formal structure. However, the situation presents the dependence as correct and the scope as honest. The theory's verdict reaches the fixed verdict's finding. I'll say AGREE.

Hmm, but my blind reading listed OPEN whether (F1) and (F2) hold. Does that make it SILENT? I think not - the situation presents the account as correct, and the theory's verdict is about the scope being honest and the account answering the scoped question. The OPEN item is a formal verification the case doesn't provide, but the fixed verdict's finding ("good explanation with honest scope") is reached. AGREE.

Actually, wait. Let me be careful. The theory's verdict on O8 would be: "The scope was stated from the start, so it's an honest scope; the account answers the question asked at that scope; whether it satisfies the fidelity conditions is not formally verifiable from the situation, but the situation presents the dependence as correct." The fixed verdict: "a good explanation with an honest scope." The theory reaches "honest scope" and reaches "good explanation" insofar as the situation presents the dependence as correct. I'll say AGREE.

My blind mark: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O9: Fixed verdict: "Milan is right, Lena is wrong. The float is read by the dial and also does the work."

My blind reading: bending the needle is an edit to the measuring relation (float unchanged, valve opens); holding the float is an intervention on the output port (valve shuts). Milan has causal assignment's signature, Lena has measurement's signature. AGREE.

My blind mark: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O10: Fixed verdict: "Rosa is right about what the devices are. Emil's difference matters only when the question is why this room is warm."

My blind reading: kinds are contract-relative; on a contract containing the set-point edit they're two kinds; on a coarser contract they're one kind in two states. The theory takes no side independently of the contract. Open: which contract the dispute is assessed under.

Hmm. The fixed verdict says "Rosa is right about what the devices are." My blind reading says the theory takes no side independently of the contract - on a coarser contract Rosa is right, on a finer contract Emil is right. So does the theory reach "Rosa is right"? 

The fixed verdict's second point: "Emil's difference matters only when the question is why this room is warm." The theory agrees: the set-point difference is a port value, and it matters to a different question (room temperature). 

The first point: "Rosa is right about what the devices are." The theory: on a contract admitting set-point edits, they're two kinds; on a contract without them, one kind. The fixed verdict says Rosa is right (they're one kind of thing in different states). The theory would say: relative to a contract that doesn't separate them, they're one kind. But the theory doesn't take a side without the contract.

Hmm, so is it SILENT (on which contract) or AGREE? The tester says AGREE, reasoning that "the case speaks of settings on devices of one make, which Part II models as port values under a shared relation." The tester's AGAINST raises the SPLIT reading (setpoint fixed inside L_j, making signatures differ). The tester's HOLDS rejects it.

I think the theory's verdict is: settings are port values, and kinds are about component relations, not port values. Two thermostats of the same make have the same component relation; their setpoints are port values. So they're one kind in different states (Rosa right), and the difference matters to a different question (Emil's point is question-relative). AGREE.

But wait - my blind reading said "on a contract containing the set-point edit the two thermostats have different signatures and are two kinds". Hmm, is that right? If the set-point is a port value, then an edit that sets it is an intervention on a port, not an edit to a component relation. The signature of a component is about its relation L_j(a,b). Setting a port value changes the valuation, not the component relation. So the two thermostats have the same component relation (same signature) and different valuations. They're one kind. Rosa is right.

Actually, my blind reading was a bit confused here. Let me re-read it: "on a contract containing the set-point edit the two thermostats have different signatures and are two kinds; on a contract containing no edit that separates them they are one kind in two states, and Rosa is right. Both claims can be true at different indices."

Hmm, I think my blind reading was wrong to say the set-point edit makes them two kinds. The set-point is a port value; setting it is an intervention on a port, which changes the valuation but not the component relation. The signature sig_C(j) = {(a,b,L_j(a,b))} - this is about the component relation, not the valuation. So setting the setpoint doesn't change L_j; it changes the valuation. So the two thermostats are one kind on any contract, and Rosa is right. 

Wait, but actually - if the setpoint is set differently, the component relation L_j might differ (e.g., the thermostat's relation maps inputs to outputs differently depending on the setpoint). Hmm. In the theory's formalism, L_j(a,b) is a relation. If the setpoint is part of the boundary conditions b, then different setpoints = different boundaries, and L_j(a,b) could differ. But the signature is over (a,b) pairs in C. If C contains setpoint edits, then... hmm.

Actually, the theory says "a port v is an input under A when A contains an edit that sets v directly." If the setpoint can be set, it's an input port. The component relation L_j(a,b) gives the relation for each (a,b). Two thermostats with different setpoints have different valuations but the same component relation (the relation is the same function; the setpoint is an input value). So their signatures coincide (the relation is the same). They're one kind.

OK so the theory reaches: Rosa is right (one kind, different states/port values), and Emil's difference matters only to the room-temperature question. AGREE.

But my blind reading said "The theory takes no side independently of the contract" and listed OPEN which contract. Hmm. I think my blind reading was overly cautious here. The theory's verdict does reach the fixed verdict: settings are port values, same make = same component relation = one kind. The set-point difference is a valuation difference, relevant to a different question. AGREE.

Hmm, but should my blind mark be SILENT because my blind reading said the theory takes no side? Or AGREE because the theory's sentences do support Rosa? Let me re-read my blind reading: "Whether Rosa or Emil is right is indexed to the contract... on a contract containing no edit that separates them they are one kind in two states, and Rosa is right. Both claims can be true at different indices... The theory takes no side independently of the contract."

So my blind reading said the theory takes no side independently of the contract. But the fixed verdict says Rosa is right. Does the theory reach that? On the theory's own terms, the two devices are one kind (same component relation, different port values). The set-point difference is a valuation difference. So the theory does reach "Rosa is right about what the devices are" - they're one kind of thing. And "Emil's difference matters only when the question is why this room is warm" - the valuation difference matters to the room-temperature question.

I think the theory reaches the fixed verdict. My blind reading was too cautious. After reading both (my blind reading and the tester), I'd say AGREE.

Hmm, but wait - my blind reading's SPLIT was NONE and OPEN was "which contract". If I'm honest, my blind reading was SILENT-ish (leaves the contract open). But the theory's sentences do support Rosa being right: settings are port values, same relation, one kind. The contract-relativity doesn't change this because the component relation is the same regardless. So AGREE.

Let me reconsider: is there a reading where Emil is right? Emil says they're two kinds because one keeps a warm room and one a cool room. The theory: the difference is in the valuation (setpoint), not the component relation. Kinds are about component relations. So Emil's "two kinds" claim is wrong - the difference is a state, not a kind. Rosa is right. The theory reaches this. AGREE.

But my blind mark... I need to state what my blind reading's mark was. My blind reading said "The theory takes no side independently of the contract" - that suggests SILENT. But it also said "on a contract containing no edit that separates them they are one kind in two states, and Rosa is right." Hmm. I think my blind reading was SILENT (leaving the contract open), but after reading the tester's reasoning, I now think AGREE. 

For the BLIND MARK, I should report what my blind reading earns. My blind reading left the contract open, so it's SILENT. But then YOUR MARK (after reading both) would be AGREE. Hmm, but the rules say BLIND MARK is "the mark your blind reading earns against the fixed verdict, by the rules above". 

Hmm, this is tricky. My blind reading's findings are: kinds are contract-relative; on a coarser contract Rosa is right; on a finer contract Emil could be right; the theory takes no side independently. Against the fixed verdict ("Rosa is right"), my blind reading says the theory's verdict depends on the contract - so it doesn't reach "Rosa is right" without the contract. That's SILENT (leaves the finding open because the deciding matter - the contract - is unstated).

But wait, is that right? The theory's sentences do say settings are port values... actually, does the theory explicitly say setpoints are port values? Let me check. Part II: "A valuation is an element of X_D = prod_v X_v." And "a port v is an input under A when A contains an edit that sets v directly." The theory doesn't explicitly discuss thermostats or setpoints. My blind reading inferred that settings are port values. The tester's verdict also makes this inference.

I think the correct reading is: the theory's sentences, read in ordinary terms, support that settings are port values and component relations are what determine kinds, so Rosa is right. My blind reading was overly cautious. But the BLIND MARK should reflect my blind reading. My blind reading said the theory takes no side independently of the contract. So BLIND MARK: SILENT.

Hmm, but then YOUR MARK would be AGREE (after reading the tester's reasoning and re-examining). And ON MARK: DISAGREE with the tester (tester says AGREE, my blind says SILENT). But after reading both, I think the tester is right and my blind reading was too cautious. So YOUR MARK: AGREE.

Hmm, wait. Let me re-read my blind reading once more: "Whether Rosa or Emil is right is indexed to the contract. Kinds are equivalence classes of components with coinciding signatures on the contract, so on a contract containing the set-point edit the two thermostats have different signatures and are two kinds; on a contract containing no edit that separates them they are one kind in two states, and Rosa is right."

So my blind reading said: on a contract containing the set-point edit, they're two kinds. That's a reading where Emil is right. And on a contract without it, Rosa is right. The theory leaves the contract open. So SILENT.

But is the "set-point edit makes them two kinds" reading actually supported? If setting the setpoint is an edit that sets a port, it changes the valuation, not the component relation. The signature is about the component relation. So the set-point edit doesn't change the signature. Hmm, but wait - if the setpoint is an input, then the component relation L_j(a,b) with b including the setpoint... the relation is the same, the inputs differ. Two thermostats with different setpoints: same relation, different inputs. Same signature. One kind.

So my blind reading's claim that "on a contract containing the set-point edit the two thermostats have different signatures and are two kinds" is wrong. The set-point edit doesn't change the component relation. So there's only one reading: they're one kind. Rosa is right. AGREE.

Hmm, but my blind reading said it. Should I correct it? The task says "starting each row from your blind reading" - I report my blind reading's findings and mark, then the tester's, then my assessment after reading both. If my blind reading was wrong, I can note that in ON VERDICT or YOUR MARK.

OK, for O10: BLIND MARK: SILENT (my blind reading left the contract open). But after reading the tester and re-examining, the theory's sentences support Rosa being right (settings are port values, same relation, one kind). So YOUR MARK: AGREE. ON MARK: DISAGREE (tester says AGREE, my blind says SILENT) - but I'd note the text supports the tester.

Hmm, actually, this is getting complicated. Let me reconsider whether my blind reading really is SILENT. My blind reading says "on a contract containing no edit that separates them they are one kind in two states, and Rosa is right." The situation: two thermostats of the same make, set to different temperatures. The natural contract is one where the setpoint is a port value, not a component difference. So Rosa is right. My blind reading acknowledged this reading but also offered the other. Since my blind reading found both readings open, it's SPLIT or SILENT.

Hmm, actually - if my blind reading found two readings (Rosa right on one contract, Emil right on another) and the contract is unstated, that's SILENT (the deciding matter - the contract - is unstated). Not SPLIT, because SPLIT requires the theory's sentences to support two readings; here it's the contract that's unstated, not the theory's sentences being ambiguous. Actually, the theory's sentences are clear: kinds depend on the contract. The contract is unstated. So SILENT.

OK: BLIND MARK: SILENT. Tester: AGREE. ON MARK: DISAGREE. YOUR MARK: AGREE (the theory's sentences, read correctly, support Rosa: settings are port values, same component relation, one kind; the set-point edit doesn't change the signature).

Hmm, wait. But actually, I want to be careful. Is it really clear that the set-point is a port value and not part of the component relation? The theory says "A port v is an input under A when A contains an edit that sets v directly." The setpoint can be set (it's a setting). So it's an input port. Input ports are part of the valuation. The component relation L_j is a relation on the ports of V_j. Two thermostats of the same make have the same L_j. Different setpoints = different valuations. Same signature. One kind. Yes, Rosa is right.

So the theory reaches the fixed verdict. AGREE. My blind reading was too cautious. I'll note this.

O11: Fixed verdict: "Monday is blind fitting. Tuesday is making something new. Wednesday is neither: she is reusing what Tuesday gave her."

My blind reading: Monday is selection; Tuesday is construction; Wednesday is deployment from the repertoire (content-preserving transfer). AGREE.

My blind mark: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O12: Fixed verdict: "Noor found a better question, and its merit is real, even though the need it met was only recognised afterwards."

My blind reading: the question is a new contract, finding it is originative; the claim requires constructed provenance with a witness; that it worked says nothing about its worth, which is a declared normative input. Open: whether the witness is owned; whether the contract was new; whether worth is invoked.

The fixed verdict: (1) Noor found a better question; (2) its merit is real; (3) the need was recognized afterwards.

My blind reading: the theory can represent finding a question (Derivation 5). On (1): the theory can say she found a question IF the contract's provenance is constructed with a witness. The situation: she asked a different question; nobody had written down the assumption. So it's new and not derived from stated premises. The theory reaches "found a question". On (2): "its merit is real" - the theory says a found question's worth is a normative input, not derived. So the theory doesn't reach "its merit is real". On (3): the need recognized afterwards - the theory says obligations are declared inputs; a need recognized afterwards is an input chosen after the verdict, which Part XIV forbids.

So on (2) and (3), the theory is SILENT (worth is an input; merit is not derived). The tester says SILENT. I agree.

My blind mark: SILENT. Tester: SILENT. ON MARK: AGREE.

O13: Fixed verdict: "Ben's act stopped the leak. Ana's explanation is correct and produced nothing. Nobody here made a repair that came from an explanation."

My blind reading: Ana's account is an account; Ben's tightening is a second active route; both contributions ran, both credited, no division. Hmm. Wait - my blind reading says "Both contributions ran, so both are credited." But the fixed verdict says "Ana's explanation... produced nothing" and "Nobody here made a repair that came from an explanation."

Hmm. Let me re-read my blind reading for O13: "Ana's cracked-washer account is an account at its contract, and Ben's random tightening is a second route to the same result: it shifted the cracked washer back into place, so it is an active route with nonconstant dependence on the represented distinction. Two systems with the same output table may differ in which routes are active... Both contributions ran, so both are credited, and the history supplies no division of credit that it does not contain. That Ben's route also stopped the leak does not make Ana's account fail, and neither does it make Ben's tightening a component of Ana's candidate."

The fixed verdict: "Ben's act stopped the leak. Ana's explanation is correct and produced nothing. Nobody here made a repair that came from an explanation."

Hmm. My blind reading says both are credited (Ana's account and Ben's act). The fixed verdict says Ana's explanation produced nothing. Is there a conflict?

Wait. Let me re-read the fixed verdict: "Ben's act stopped the leak. Ana's explanation is correct and produced nothing. Nobody here made a repair that came from an explanation."

The fixed verdict's findings: (1) Ben's act stopped the leak; (2) Ana's explanation is correct; (3) Ana's explanation produced nothing; (4) nobody made a repair that came from an explanation.

The theory (Part XI): "A correct account that produced nothing, an act that repaired without an account, and a repair produced through use of an account are three different attributions." So the theory distinguishes: Ana's account is correct but produced nothing (no active route from the account to the repair); Ben's act repaired without an account; nobody made a repair through an account. That's exactly the fixed verdict.

But my blind reading said "Both contributions ran, so both are credited." Hmm - that's about the repair's credit, not about the account's productive role. Actually, Part XI's ProducedBy credits contributions to the repair. Ana's account didn't produce the repair (no active route from the account to Ben's act). Ben's act produced the repair. So only Ben is credited for the repair. Ana's account is correct but produced nothing.

Wait, my blind reading seems to have conflated things. Let me re-read: "Both contributions ran, so both are credited, and the history supplies no division of credit that it does not contain." Hmm, this seems wrong for O13. Ana's account is a correct account, but it didn't produce the repair - Ben's random act did. There's no active route from Ana's account to the repair. So Ana is not credited for the repair.

Hmm, but my blind reading said "Ben's random tightening is a second route to the same result... it is an active route." And "Both contributions ran." I think my blind reading misread the case. Let me re-read the situation: "Ana inspects a leak, says the washer has cracked, and explains why that lets water past. Before she can replace it, Ben tightens a nearby joint at random. The leak stops, because tightening shifted the cracked washer back into place."

So Ana's account (cracked washer) is correct. Ben's act (tightening) stopped the leak by shifting the washer. Ana's account didn't cause the repair - she didn't act on it. Ben's act was random (not based on Ana's account). So: Ana's account is correct and produced nothing; Ben's act repaired without an account.

My blind reading said "Both contributions ran, so both are credited" - that's wrong. The theory's Part XI sentence gives exactly the fixed verdict. The tester's verdict is right: "Ana has a correct account, but no active route runs from it to the repair. Ben's tightening is an act that repaired without an account."

So my blind reading was wrong on O13. The theory reaches the fixed verdict. AGREE.

But my blind mark... my blind reading's findings were confused. It said both are credited. Against the fixed verdict ("Ana's explanation... produced nothing"), my blind reading says both are credited, which is a different finding. So my blind mark would be DISAGREE? Hmm. But my blind reading also said "That Ben's route also stopped the leak does not make Ana's account fail" - which is consistent with "Ana's explanation is correct." And it said Ben's act is an active route - consistent with "Ben's act stopped the leak." But "both are credited" conflicts with "Ana's explanation produced nothing."

Hmm. Actually, let me re-read my blind reading more carefully. "Both contributions ran, so both are credited, and the history supplies no division of credit that it does not contain." I think "both contributions" here refers to Ana's account and Ben's act, and "both are credited" means both are credited for... what? The repair? That would be wrong. Or does it mean both are recognized as what they are (a correct account and a repair)?

I think my blind reading made an error here, treating it like the two-valve cases (O20, O39) where both acts contributed. But in O13, Ana's account didn't contribute to the repair - it's a correct explanation that produced nothing. The theory's Part XI sentence is exactly on point.

So: my blind reading was DISAGREE (it says both are credited, the fixed verdict says Ana's produced nothing). But after reading the tester, the theory's Part XI sentence gives the fixed verdict exactly. So YOUR MARK: AGREE. ON VERDICT: DISAGREE with the tester? No wait - the tester's verdict is right (Ana's account produced nothing, Ben's act repaired without an account). So ON VERDICT: AGREE with the tester. ON QUOTES: SUPPORTS (the Part XI sentence gives exactly the fixed verdict).

Hmm, but my blind reading's mark... Let me think about what mark my blind reading earns. My blind reading's findings: Ana's account is an account; Ben's act is an active route; both are credited; Ben's act doesn't make Ana's account fail. Against the fixed verdict: (1) "Ben's act stopped the leak" - my reading agrees (Ben's act is an active route); (2) "Ana's explanation is correct" - agrees; (3) "produced nothing" - my reading says both are credited, which conflicts... or does it? "Both are credited" could mean both are recognized, not both produced the repair. Hmm.

Actually, I think I'm overanalyzing my own blind reading. Let me just say: my blind reading found the theory credits both Ana's account and Ben's act as contributions, while the fixed verdict says Ana's account produced nothing. The theory's Part XI sentence actually gives the fixed verdict exactly. So my blind reading misapplied the credit sentence. BLIND MARK: DISAGREE (my reading credited Ana's account with producing, the fixed verdict says it produced nothing). Hmm, or is it SPLIT?

Actually, you know what - let me reconsider. My blind reading says "Both contributions ran, so both are credited." The theory's sentence is "where two sufficient contributions both ran, both are credited." But in O13, Ana's account is NOT a contribution to the repair - it's a correct account that didn't produce the repair. So my blind reading misidentified the case as a two-contribution case. The theory's actual verdict (per the tester) uses the Part XI three-attributions sentence. 

So my blind reading reached a different finding from the fixed verdict on the point "Ana's explanation produced nothing." BLIND MARK: DISAGREE. After reading the tester, the theory's Part XI sentence gives the fixed verdict. YOUR MARK: AGREE.

Hmm, but wait - is my blind reading really DISAGREE? Let me re-read once more: "That Ben's route also stopped the leak does not make Ana's account fail, and neither does it make Ben's tightening a component of Ana's candidate." This says Ana's account doesn't fail (it's still correct). The fixed verdict says Ana's explanation is correct and produced nothing. My reading says Ana's account is correct (doesn't fail). On "produced nothing" - my reading says "both are credited" which implies Ana's account is credited with something. Hmm.

OK, I'll go with: my blind reading is ambiguous but leans toward crediting both, which differs from "produced nothing." I'll mark BLIND MARK as DISAGREE and note the theory's Part XI sentence actually gives the fixed verdict. Actually, hmm, let me reconsider - maybe SPLIT is better since my reading contains both "Ana's account is an account" (agreeing she has a correct explanation) and "both are credited" (disagreeing with "produced nothing"). 

Ugh. Let me just be decisive: my blind reading applied the "two sufficient contributions" sentence, which gives a different finding from "produced nothing." That's DISAGREE on at least one point. BLIND MARK: DISAGREE. After reading the tester, the Part XI sentence gives the fixed verdict. YOUR MARK: AGREE. ON MARK: DISAGREE with the tester (tester says AGREE, my blind says DISAGREE) - but I agree with the tester after reading both.

Hmm, wait. Actually, I realize I should be more careful about whether my blind reading really disagrees. Let me re-read the fixed verdict once more: "Ben's act stopped the leak. Ana's explanation is correct and produced nothing. Nobody here made a repair that came from an explanation."

And my blind reading: "Ana's cracked-washer account is an account at its contract, and Ben's random tightening is a second route to the same result... Both contributions ran, so both are credited..."

I think "both are credited" in my blind reading means both are credited for the repair. That conflicts with "Ana's explanation produced nothing." So DISAGREE.

But actually, hold on. Is the theory's verdict really "produced nothing"? Let me think. Part XI: "A correct account that produced nothing, an act that repaired without an account, and a repair produced through use of an account are three different attributions." This sentence names the three categories. In O13: Ana's account is correct and produced nothing (she didn't act on it; Ben's act was random). Ben's act repaired without an account. Nobody made a repair through an account. So the theory's verdict matches the fixed verdict. The tester is right.

My blind reading misapplied the "two sufficient contributions" sentence. So BLIND MARK: DISAGREE, YOUR MARK: AGREE, ON MARK: DISAGREE (but the tester is right).

Hmm, this is awkward. Let me reconsider whether my blind reading is really DISAGREE or whether it's SILENT/SPLIT. My blind reading's OPEN list: "Whether Ben's tightening is critical in the written support or redundant alongside the washer route (Part VI, (B), (S)); whether the contract contains the joint-tightening edit." These are about criticality, not about whether Ana's account produced the repair. 

I think my blind reading genuinely misread the case as a two-contribution case. The theory's verdict (Part XI three attributions) gives the fixed verdict. So I'll mark BLIND MARK: DISAGREE and explain.

Actually, wait. Let me reconsider one more time. My blind reading says "Two systems with the same output table may differ in which routes are active, and the semantics represents the difference." This is about Ana's account vs. Ben's act being different routes. And "Both contributions ran, so both are credited." Hmm. 

Actually, maybe my blind reading is saying: Ana's account is a correct account (of the leak), and Ben's act is the repair. Both are "contributions" in the sense that both are part of the story. But "both are credited" for the repair? The theory's ProducedBy credits contributions to the repair. Ana's account didn't produce the repair. So my blind reading is wrong to credit both.

OK, final decision: BLIND MARK: DISAGREE (my blind reading credited Ana's account with the repair, contra "produced nothing"). YOUR MARK: AGREE (the Part XI sentence gives the fixed verdict). ON VERDICT: AGREE with the tester. ON QUOTES: SUPPORTS. ON MARK: DISAGREE (my blind mark differs from the tester's AGREE, but the tester is right).

Hmm, actually, I realize I should reconsider whether my blind reading is DISAGREE or AGREE. Let me look at the last sentence of my blind reading: "That Ben's route also stopped the leak does not make Ana's account fail, and neither does it make Ben's tightening a component of Ana's candidate." This says Ana's account doesn't fail - i.e., it's still a correct account. The fixed verdict says "Ana's explanation is correct." So on that point, AGREE. On "produced nothing" - my reading doesn't explicitly say Ana's account produced the repair; it says "both are credited." Hmm, "both are credited" is ambiguous.

You know, I think I'm overthinking this. Let me look at the overall shape of my blind reading: it treats O13 as a case of two routes to the same result, both active, both credited. The fixed verdict treats it as: correct account producing nothing, act repairing without an account. These are different readings. The theory's Part XI sentence supports the fixed verdict. So my blind reading is DISAGREE.

Wait, no. Hmm. Let me reconsider whether the theory actually supports "produced nothing." The theory says "A correct account that produced nothing... [is a different attribution from] a repair produced through use of an account." For Ana's account to have "produced nothing," there must be no active route from the account to the repair. In O13, Ana explained but didn't act; Ben acted randomly. So no route from the account to the repair. The account produced nothing. Yes.

But my blind reading said Ben's tightening is "a second route to the same result" and "both contributions ran." This treats Ana's account as a contribution to the repair, which it isn't. So DISAGREE.

Hmm, OK, but actually - maybe my blind reading is treating "contributions" loosely. Let me just go with DISAGREE for the blind mark and move on. Actually, no - let me reconsider once more. 

The issue is: does my blind reading reach "Ana's explanation produced nothing"? My blind reading says Ana's account "is an account at its contract" and Ben's act is "a second route." It doesn't say Ana's account produced the repair. It says "both contributions ran, so both are credited." If "contributions" means contributions to the repair, then Ana's account is credited with the repair, which contradicts "produced nothing." If "contributions" means contributions to the overall situation, then it's consistent.

I think the most natural reading of my blind reading is that it treats both as contributions to the repair (citing the ProducedBy sentence about two sufficient contributions). That's a misreading. The theory's verdict is the Part XI three-attributions one. So BLIND MARK: DISAGREE.

Ugh, but this feels harsh on my own blind reading. Let me look at it from a different angle: what does the theory's verdict actually give? The Part XI sentence: "A correct account that produced nothing, an act that repaired without an account, and a repair produced through use of an account are three different attributions." Applied: Ana = correct account that produced nothing; Ben = act that repaired without an account; nobody = repair through an account. That's the fixed verdict exactly. AGREE.

My blind reading didn't use this sentence; it used the ProducedBy credit sentence. So my blind reading reached a different finding (both credited). DISAGREE.

OK, moving on. I'll note this in the row.

O14: Fixed verdict: "Kofi has kept a narrow skill by his own effort. He has yet to understand the language."

My blind reading: retained capability, narrow use; narrow retained use establishes neither wider understanding nor permanent inability; reciting from the book is relay, not construction. Open: whether the transport is selected or declared; the declared use task and boundary.

The fixed verdict: (1) kept a narrow skill by his own effort; (2) yet to understand the language.

My blind reading: the theory says a narrow retained use is what it is. It supports (1) - a retained capability for a narrow task. "By his own effort" - the theory's ownership requires a declared boundary; my blind reading lists this as open. Hmm. But the situation says he practiced for a month and can now order with the book shut. The practice is his own. The theory would say: the retained capability is his own if the processes run inside his boundary - which they do (he practiced). 

On (2): "yet to understand the language" - the theory says a narrow retained use establishes neither the wider understanding it falls short of nor a permanent inability. So the theory supports "he has yet to understand" (the narrow use doesn't establish wider understanding). AGREE.

My blind mark: AGREE. The open items (declared boundary) are not deciding - the situation supports that the skill is his own (he practiced, book shut). Tester: AGREE.

O15: Fixed verdict: "Where the arrows came from is a hole in the history of the diagrams, and it is a hole in his account, because his cut followed them."

My blind reading: the arrow lacks any record, so its provenance is not established; a declared transport doesn't make an occurrence represent; Sam's cut is a small binding construction; the arrow's unknown provenance is not repaired by Sam's use. Open: the provenance of the arrow; whether Sam's cutting subhistory is owned and nontrivial.

The tester: SPLIT, between "a carrier keeps its provenance when present access is lost" (gap only in access/records) and "missing evidence stays missing" (standing gap in support).

Hmm. The fixed verdict says the hole is in his account (because his cut followed them). My blind reading says the arrow's provenance is not established and is not repaired by Sam's use. That's close to the fixed verdict. But my blind reading also says Sam's cut is a small binding construction (of the binding), while the rest keeps inherited provenance.

Wait, the fixed verdict says "it is a hole in his account." My blind reading says the arrow's provenance is not established. Is that the same? The fixed verdict says the hole is in his account - i.e., his account of his own work is incomplete because the arrows' origin is unknown and his cut followed them. My blind reading says the arrow's provenance is not established and Sam's use doesn't repair it. So the theory reaches: there's a gap in the provenance record. Does it reach "it is a hole in his account"? 

Hmm. The theory says "A carrier keeps its provenance when present access to it is lost." So the arrows keep their provenance (whatever it is) even though nobody recorded it. The gap is in the record, not in the provenance. But the fixed verdict says the hole is in his account. Is "his account" the provenance or the record?

The tester's SPLIT: on one reading, the arrows have some provenance and his account lacks only a record; on the other, the unreceipted arrows are a standing gap in what supports his account. The tester says the theory doesn't choose.

Hmm. Let me think about what the theory actually says. Part IV: "A carrier keeps its provenance when present access to it is lost, and a later record derived from the carrier is not a second, independent witness to its history." This says provenance is kept - the arrows have their provenance, we just don't know it. Part IX: "missing evidence stays missing." This says the missing record is missing.

So the theory's verdict: the arrows keep their provenance (a fact), but the record of it is missing. Is the missing record "a hole in his account"? The fixed verdict says yes. The theory... hmm. The theory says a construction witness identifies the controlled processes, the incoming carriers, the bindings constructed. Sam's construction witness for his cut would identify the arrows as incoming carriers. The arrows' provenance is unknown. So the witness is incomplete - the incoming carrier's provenance is unrecorded. Is that a hole in his account? 

The theory says "A construction witness identifies the controlled processes, the incoming carriers, the bindings constructed, and the resulting representation." If the arrows are incoming carriers, their provenance should be identifiable. It's not. So the witness is incomplete. That's a hole in his account. So the theory reaches the fixed verdict?

Hmm, but the theory also says "A carrier keeps its provenance when present access to it is lost." So the arrows' provenance exists; it's just unknown. The hole is in the record, not in the provenance. But the fixed verdict says the hole is in his account. If "his account" includes the record of incoming carriers, then yes, there's a hole.

I think the theory reaches: the arrows' provenance is a fact that is unrecorded, and Sam's account (his construction witness) lacks the record of his incoming carrier's provenance. That's a hole in his account. So AGREE?

But the tester says SPLIT. Let me reconsider. The tester's two readings: (1) provenance is a physical fact the carrier keeps, so the arrows have their history and his account lacks only a record; (2) the receipts contain a leaf with no recorded event behind it, so there's a standing gap. The tester says the text doesn't choose.

Hmm. I think the theory's sentences do support both readings, but do they reach different findings? Reading 1: the hole is only in the record (access), not in the provenance. Reading 2: the hole is in what supports his account (missing evidence). The fixed verdict says the hole is in his account. Reading 2 agrees; Reading 1 says the hole is only in the record.

But wait - is "his account" the same as "the record"? If his account is the construction witness (which identifies incoming carriers), then the missing provenance record IS a hole in his account. Reading 1 would then agree too. Hmm.

Actually, I think the key question is whether the arrows' unknown provenance is a defect in Sam's account or just an unknown fact. The theory says carriers keep provenance - so the arrows have a provenance, it's just not recorded. Sam's account of his own work (the construction witness) is complete in what it identifies (the processes, the carriers, the bindings), but the carrier's provenance is unrecorded. Is that a hole? 

The fixed verdict: "Where the arrows came from is a hole in the history of the diagrams, and it is a hole in his account, because his cut followed them." So: (1) hole in the history of the diagrams (the arrows' origin is unrecorded); (2) hole in his account (because his cut followed them).

The theory: (1) the arrows' provenance is unrecorded - yes, a hole in the history. (2) Is it a hole in his account? His account (construction witness) identifies the arrows as incoming carriers. Their provenance is unrecorded. The theory says a construction witness identifies the incoming carriers - it doesn't say it must record their provenance. Hmm. But Part IX says "missing evidence stays missing" - if the arrows' provenance is evidence his account needs, then it's missing.

I think this is genuinely ambiguous. The tester's SPLIT seems defensible. But my blind reading said "the arrow's unknown provenance is not repaired by Sam's use of it" - which suggests the theory reaches that the unknown provenance is a standing gap. Hmm.

Let me re-read my blind reading: "The arrow lacks any such record, so its provenance is not established, and a declared transport does not make an occurrence represent anything. Sam's new blank, cut by following the arrows, is a small binding newly prepared inside received content: that binding is construction, and the rest of the content keeps its inherited provenance. The arrow's unknown provenance is not repaired by Sam's use of it."

So my blind reading says: the arrow's provenance is not established; Sam's use doesn't repair it. That's close to "it is a hole in his account." But my blind reading also says "the rest of the content keeps its inherited provenance" - which is about the rest of the diagrams, not the arrows.

Hmm. I think my blind reading leans toward the fixed verdict (the unknown provenance is a gap). But the theory's sentence "a carrier keeps its provenance when present access is lost" cuts the other way - the arrows keep their provenance, so it's not lost, just unknown.

OK let me think about what mark my blind reading earns. My blind reading's findings: the arrow's provenance is not established; Sam's use doesn't repair it; the cut is a small binding construction. Against the fixed verdict ("it is a hole in his account because his cut followed them"): my reading says the provenance is not established and not repaired by use - that reaches the fixed verdict's finding. So AGREE?

But the tester says SPLIT, arguing the theory supports both "gap only in access" and "standing gap in support." Hmm.

Let me think about which is right. The theory's sentences:
1. "A carrier keeps its provenance when present access to it is lost" - the arrows keep their provenance. This suggests the provenance is intact, only access is lost.
2. "Missing evidence stays missing" - the record of the arrows' origin is missing.
3. "A construction witness identifies the controlled processes, the incoming carriers, the bindings constructed, and the resulting representation" - Sam's witness identifies the arrows as incoming carriers, but their provenance is unrecorded.

The fixed verdict: the hole is in his account. 

I think the theory's verdict is: the arrows keep their provenance (a fact), the record is missing, and Sam's account identifies the arrows as carriers but not their provenance. Whether that's "a hole in his account" depends on whether his account needs the arrows' provenance. The theory says a construction witness identifies incoming carriers - it doesn't require recording their provenance. So arguably, Sam's account is complete as a construction witness (it identifies the carriers), and the arrows' provenance is simply unknown, not a hole in his account.

But the fixed verdict says it IS a hole in his account. Hmm. And Part IX: "A record reconstructed from the claim it is meant to support is not a receipt for that claim." And "missing evidence stays missing." If the arrows' provenance is evidence that Sam's account needs (because his cut followed them), then it's missing. 

I think the theory does support the fixed verdict: the arrows are incoming carriers for Sam's construction; their provenance is unrecorded; "missing evidence stays missing"; so his account has a hole where the arrows' provenance should be. The "carrier keeps provenance" sentence says the provenance exists (isn't destroyed), but that doesn't mean it's known or recorded.

Hmm, but the tester's SPLIT argues the other reading: the carrier keeps provenance, so the account's provenance is intact and only the record is missing. 

I think this is a genuine tension. Let me consider: does "a carrier keeps its provenance when present access to it is lost" mean the account is fine (provenance intact) or just that the provenance exists? I read it as: the provenance exists as a fact; loss of access doesn't destroy it. It doesn't say the account is complete. So the arrows have provenance, but nobody knows it, and the record is missing. That's a hole in the record. Is the record part of "his account"? 

The fixed verdict says "it is a hole in his account, because his cut followed them." The theory: his cut followed the arrows (they're incoming carriers); their provenance is unrecorded; missing evidence stays missing. So his account (which relies on the arrows) has a hole. I think the theory reaches this. AGREE.

But the tester's SPLIT... I think the tester over-split here. The "carrier keeps provenance" sentence is about the provenance existing as a fact, not about the account being complete. The theory's verdict reaches the fixed verdict. So I'd say AGREE, and the tester's SPLIT is wrong.

Hmm, but wait. Let me reconsider. The tester's reading 1: "provenance is a physical fact that a carrier keeps whether or not it is recorded, so the arrows have some selected or constructed history and his account lacks nothing but a record." This says his account lacks nothing but a record. Is that supported? The theory says carriers keep provenance. If the arrows' provenance is intact (as a fact), then his account's provenance is intact - he just can't show it. So his account "lacks nothing but a record."

Reading 2: "the receipts for his cut contain a leaf with no recorded event behind it, and missing evidence stays missing, so there is a gap in what supports his account." This says there's a gap in support.

The fixed verdict says there's a hole in his account. Reading 2 agrees. Reading 1 says the account lacks only a record. 

Hmm. Does the theory choose? The theory says both: carriers keep provenance (reading 1) AND missing evidence stays missing (reading 2). These are both theory sentences. Do they reach different findings on "hole in his account"? 

I think the resolution is: the arrows keep their provenance (the fact exists), but the evidence for it is missing (the record is missing). The fixed verdict says the hole is in his account. If "his account" is the record/witness, then yes, there's a hole (missing evidence). If "his account" is the provenance itself, then no, the provenance is intact. The fixed verdict means the former (his account of his work is incomplete). So the theory reaches the fixed verdict via reading 2, and reading 1 is about the provenance fact, not about the account. 

So I'd say the theory reaches the fixed verdict: AGREE. The tester's SPLIT conflates the provenance fact with the account's completeness.

Hmm, but I'm not fully sure. Let me consider the "hole in the history of the diagrams" part. The fixed verdict: "Where the arrows came from is a hole in the history of the diagrams, and it is a hole in his account, because his cut followed them." Two findings: (1) hole in the history of the diagrams; (2) hole in his account. The theory: (1) the arrows' provenance is unrecorded - yes, a hole in the history. (2) His account relies on the arrows (his cut followed them), and their provenance is missing evidence - so a hole in his account. AGREE.

OK, I'll go with AGREE for my mark after reading both, and DISAGREE with the tester's SPLIT. But my blind reading - what mark does it earn? My blind reading says the arrow's provenance is not established and not repaired by use. That reaches the fixed verdict. So BLIND MARK: AGREE. ON MARK: DISAGREE with the tester (SPLIT). YOUR MARK: AGREE.

Hmm, wait. But my blind reading also has OPEN: "The provenance of the arrow symbol — selected, constructed or declared." Does that make it SILENT? The open question is what the provenance IS, not whether there's a hole. The fixed verdict says there's a hole (the origin is unrecorded). The theory reaches that regardless of what the provenance is. So AGREE.

Hmm, but actually - my blind reading says "so its provenance is not established." The fixed verdict says "it is a hole in his account." These match. AGREE.

But the tester says SPLIT. Let me make sure I'm not missing something. The tester's POINT is "Where the arrows came from is a hole in the history of the diagrams, and it is a hole in his account, because his cut followed them." The tester says the theory splits on this. 

I think the tester is wrong here. The theory's sentences, read together, reach the fixed verdict: the arrows' provenance is unrecorded (hole in history), and since Sam's cut followed them, his account has a hole (missing evidence stays missing). The "carrier keeps provenance" sentence is about the fact existing, not about the account being complete. So AGREE, and the tester's SPLIT is a misreading.

Hmm, but let me double-check by considering the tester's reasoning. The tester says: "The first quotation locates the gap only in access and records, while the second makes the unreceipted arrows a standing gap in what his account rests on, and the text does not choose between them." 

The first quotation: "A carrier keeps its provenance when present access to it is lost, and a later record derived from the carrier is not a second, independent witness to its history." This says: provenance is kept; access is lost; a derived record isn't a second witness. Applied to O15: the arrows keep their provenance; access is lost (nobody can read it); the diagrams are derived records, not second witnesses. So the gap is in access. But does this mean the account is complete? No - it means the provenance exists but is inaccessible. The account still can't show the arrows' provenance.

The second quotation: "Negation exchanges them; missing evidence stays missing." Applied: the evidence for the arrows' origin is missing. So there's a gap in what's known.

Do these reach different findings on "hole in his account"? I think both are consistent with "hole in his account": the provenance exists but is inaccessible AND the evidence is missing. The account has a hole either way. The only way to get "no hole" is if "carrier keeps provenance" means the account is complete - but it doesn't mean that; it means the fact exists.

So I think the tester's SPLIT is wrong; the theory reaches the fixed verdict. AGREE.

Hmm, OK, but I want to be careful about overruling the tester. Let me consider once more whether "a carrier keeps its provenance" could be read as "the account is fine." The sentence is in the context of (R): representation is a fidelity fact with a history. "A carrier keeps its provenance when present access to it is lost" - this is saying that loss of access doesn't destroy provenance, so a carrier still represents even if nobody can currently read it (cf. O28). In O15, the issue is different: the arrows' provenance was never recorded. So "keeps its provenance" applies (the arrows have whatever provenance they have), but the record is missing. The fixed verdict's "hole in his account" is about the missing record. The theory reaches it. AGREE.

OK: O15: BLIND MARK: AGREE. TESTER MARK: SPLIT. ON VERDICT: DISAGREE (the theory's sentences both point to a hole in the account; the "keeps provenance" sentence is about the fact existing, not about the account being complete). ON QUOTES: PARTLY (the first quote is about access loss, which is not the issue in O15; the second quote does support the hole). ON MARK: DISAGREE. YOUR MARK: AGREE.

Hmm, wait. Actually, let me reconsider whether the first quote even applies to O15. In O15, the arrows' provenance was never recorded - it's not that access was lost; it's that there was never a record. "A carrier keeps its provenance when present access to it is lost" - this is about access loss, not about never-recorded. So the first quote is misapplied by the tester. The relevant theory sentences are: "A construction witness identifies the controlled processes, the incoming carriers, the bindings constructed, and the resulting representation" (the arrows are incoming carriers whose provenance is unrecorded) and "missing evidence stays missing." Both support the hole. So the tester's SPLIT rests on a misapplied quote. AGREE.

OK wait, I realize I should double check: is it really true that the arrows' provenance was never recorded? The situation: "One symbol appears on both, a small arrow meaning 'the blank catches here', and nobody recorded who first drew it or from what." So the arrows' origin is unrecorded. Yes. So "access loss" isn't the issue; never-recorded is. The first quote is misapplied. AGREE with the fixed verdict, DISAGREE with the tester's SPLIT.

Hmm, but hold on - my blind reading quoted the "carrier keeps provenance" sentence for O15. So my blind reading also used it. But my blind reading used it to say the arrows' provenance is not established and not repaired by use. Hmm, that's a bit different from the tester's use. My blind reading's conclusion was that the provenance is not established - which supports the hole finding. So my blind reading reached AGREE. OK.

Let me reconsider: maybe my blind reading is actually SPLIT too, since it quotes both "carrier keeps provenance" and the construction-witness sentence. But my blind reading's FINDINGS say "so its provenance is not established" and "The arrow's unknown provenance is not repaired by Sam's use of it." That's a clear finding of a gap. So AGREE.

OK, I'll go with BLIND MARK: AGREE for O15, and disagree with the tester's SPLIT.

Hmm, actually, wait. Let me reconsider once more. I keep going back and forth. Let me settle it.

The fixed verdict's point: "Where the arrows came from is a hole in the history of the diagrams, and it is a hole in his account, because his cut followed them."

The theory's relevant sentences:
- "A construction witness identifies the controlled processes, the incoming carriers, the bindings constructed, and the resulting representation." (Part X) - Sam's witness should identify the arrows as incoming carriers; their provenance is unrecorded, so the witness is incomplete.
- "Missing evidence stays missing." (Part IX) - the evidence of the arrows' origin is missing.
- "A carrier keeps its provenance when present access to it is lost" (Part IV) - this is about access loss, not never-recorded; it says provenance isn't destroyed by access loss. In O15, the provenance was never recorded, so this sentence is about a different scenario. But even if applied, it says the provenance exists as a fact - it doesn't say the account is complete.

So the theory reaches: the arrows' origin is unrecorded (hole in history), and Sam's account relies on them (his cut followed them), so there's a hole in his account. AGREE with the fixed verdict.

The tester's SPLIT is based on a misapplication of the "access loss" sentence. DISAGREE with the tester.

OK, final: O15: BLIND MARK: AGREE. TESTER: SPLIT. ON VERDICT: DISAGREE. ON QUOTES: PARTLY (the first quote concerns access loss, not a never-recorded provenance; the second supports the hole). ON MARK: DISAGREE. YOUR MARK: AGREE.

Hmm, this is getting really long. Let me speed up and be more decisive. I'll go through the remaining cases more quickly.

O16: Fixed verdict: "The worn key is evidence on its own. The diary is the diagram talking about itself. Sam has one independent witness, and the diary is a second copy of the first."

My blind reading: the diary is a record reconstructed from the claim it is meant to support, not a receipt; a later record derived from the carrier is not a second witness; the worn key and diagram remain. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O17: Fixed verdict: "Ownership here rests on the log, which shows the routine running inside the robot. Strike the manual's sentence and nothing is lost; keep only the manual's sentence and there is nothing."

My blind reading: the manual's circular reasoning is rejected; ownership is decided by the declared boundary and the history; the log is a receipt establishing the active route; the boundary must be declared before the attribution. Open: the declared boundary.

Hmm. The fixed verdict says "Ownership here rests on the log, which shows the routine running inside the robot." My blind reading says ownership is decided by the declared boundary, and the log establishes the active route. The theory says "a process that runs inside the boundary is the system's own today whoever wrote it." The log shows the routine running inside the robot. But the theory requires a declared boundary. The situation doesn't declare one. So is the theory SILENT (boundary undeclared) or does it reach the fixed verdict (the log shows it's inside)?

The tester says SILENT: the theory takes the declared boundary as the deciding input, the case gives only the physical location, so ownership stays unsettled. The tester's AGAINST: AGREE, reading "inside the robot" as inside the system boundary. The tester's HOLDS: Part X explicitly separates location in the casing from the declared boundary.

Hmm. The theory says "where the boundary is drawn decides, not where the process sits in the casing." So physical location inside the casing doesn't decide; the declared boundary does. The case gives no declared boundary. So the theory leaves ownership unsettled. SILENT.

But the fixed verdict says ownership rests on the log (showing the routine running inside the robot). The theory says the boundary decides, not the casing. So the theory doesn't reach "ownership rests on the log showing it's inside the robot" - it needs the declared boundary. SILENT.

My blind reading: the boundary must be declared before the attribution; open: the declared boundary. So my blind reading is SILENT too. BLIND MARK: SILENT. Tester: SILENT. ON MARK: AGREE.

Hmm, but wait - the fixed verdict also says "Strike the manual's sentence and nothing is lost; keep only the manual's sentence and there is nothing." The theory does reach this: the manual's circular ground is rejected ("owned because it can, and can because owned" grounds neither). So on that point, AGREE. But on "ownership rests on the log," SILENT. Overall: SILENT (at least one point left open).

BLIND MARK: SILENT. Tester: SILENT. ON MARK: AGREE.

O18: Fixed verdict: "The one tooth is hers. The rest is relay. She built something, small, and it is exactly the tooth."

My blind reading: filing one tooth is a small binding newly prepared inside received content; construction of that binding; the rest keeps inherited provenance. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O19: Fixed verdict: "The diagram was in his hand and did no work; the lock did it. Had the diagram said something different, he would have followed the lock."

My blind reading: the construction witness is Sam's own gauge work; the diagram agrees but is not the incoming carrier; the new blank's content is constructed from his own observation. Hmm - my blind reading focuses on the construction witness, while the fixed verdict focuses on the diagram doing no work (inactive route).

The theory (Part IX): "A route that started and did no work, or that was already at rest when the result occurred, is not active for that result; whether a route is active is read from the history, not from the result." The diagram was in his hand but did no work (he followed the lock). So the diagram's route is not active. The theory reaches the fixed verdict. AGREE.

My blind reading reached the same conclusion via the construction witness. BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O20: Fixed verdict: "Both did something that would have stopped it. Neither can claim it alone. The record shows two sufficient acts and no way to say whose water stopped."

My blind reading: redundant routes, each contributory, neither indispensable; both active; both credited; no division. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O21: Fixed verdict: "The robot chose, with its own evidence. The expert did the part that took understanding, knowing what would separate the two. The choosing is the robot's; the diagnosis as an achievement is mostly the expert's."

My blind reading: the robot's choice is selection, not construction; the candidates and test were supplied from outside; the robot's contribution is execution of an outside-supplied step; originative attribution does not attach to the robot.

Hmm. The fixed verdict says "The choosing is the robot's; the diagnosis as an achievement is mostly the expert's." My blind reading says the robot's choosing is selection (not originative), and the expert supplied the decisive step. Does the theory reach "the choosing is the robot's"? The theory says a process that runs inside the boundary is the system's own. The choosing ran inside the robot. So it's the robot's own (given the boundary). But the boundary is undeclared. Hmm.

And "mostly the expert's" - the theory supplies no division of credit, no measure for "mostly." So the theory is SILENT on "mostly."

The tester says SILENT: the theory separates the outside contribution from the robot's choosing but supplies no measure for "mostly." I agree.

But my blind reading also said "Originative attribution for the diagnosis therefore does not attach to the robot on this situation." The fixed verdict says "the diagnosis as an achievement is mostly the expert's." My blind reading says the robot's choosing is selection, not originative - so the achievement isn't originative for the robot. Does that reach "mostly the expert's"? Not exactly - it reaches "not the robot's," which is close to "mostly the expert's" but not the same. The theory doesn't rank.

I think my blind reading is SILENT on "mostly" (no measure) and reaches "the choosing is the robot's" (given the boundary, which is open). So SILENT.

Hmm, but my blind reading's OPEN includes "the declared boundary." So my blind reading is SILENT on whether the choosing is the robot's (boundary undeclared) and SILENT on "mostly" (no measure). BLIND MARK: SILENT. Tester: SILENT. ON MARK: AGREE.

O22: Fixed verdict: "Her question is about the pair. The brief lead is part of what 'together' means on this machine, and it is a fact about the machine, not a second question about one knob."

My blind reading: the contract admits only joint turns; neither knob is an input; the lead is a coupling component; the output table doesn't determine the account; the lead becomes representable only with finer edits. Hmm. My blind reading's OPEN: "whether the contract admits single-knob edits or finer temporal resolution, without which the lead is not represented."

Wait. The fixed verdict says "The brief lead is part of what 'together' means on this machine." My blind reading says the lead is a coupling component whose relation is invisible in final positions, and it becomes representable only when the contract admits finer temporal or single-knob edits. Hmm. So my blind reading says the lead is NOT represented under the joint-turn contract (it's invisible in the input-output projection). The fixed verdict says the lead IS part of what "together" means (i.e., it's part of the question).

Hmm, is there a conflict? The fixed verdict: the lead is part of the pair-question, a fact about the machine. My blind reading: the lead is a coupling component; under the joint contract it's invisible in the output; finer edits would represent it.

Actually, I think the theory does reach the fixed verdict. The theory says "Values of ports may be paths, functions, fields, proofs or histories." The joint turn's value can be a path that includes the lead. So the lead is part of the joint edit's value - part of what "together" means on this machine. It's a fact about the machine (the linkage imposes it). And it's not a second question about one knob (a single-knob query would be a different (C,Q)).

My blind reading acknowledged this ("the lead becomes representable only when the contract admits finer temporal or single-knob edits") but also said the output table doesn't determine the account. Hmm. The fixed verdict doesn't claim the output table determines it; it claims the lead is part of the pair-question.

I think the theory reaches the fixed verdict: the lead is part of the joint turn (port values may be paths), it's a machine fact (the linkage), and it's not a second question. AGREE.

But my blind reading's OPEN suggests the lead is not represented under the joint contract. Hmm. Let me reconsider. If port values may be paths, then the joint turn's value is a path that includes the lead. So the lead IS represented in the port value. The output table of final positions doesn't capture it, but the organization's port value (a path) does. So the lead is part of the question. AGREE.

My blind reading seems to have been overly focused on the input-output projection limitation. The theory does reach the fixed verdict. So BLIND MARK: AGREE? Or is my blind reading SILENT (because it left open whether finer edits are admitted)?

Hmm. The fixed verdict's finding: the lead is part of the pair-question, a machine fact, not a second question. The theory: port values may be paths (the lead is in the path); the linkage imposes it (machine fact); a single-knob query is a different question. So the theory reaches the fixed verdict. My blind reading's OPEN was about whether finer edits are admitted - but that's about representing the lead at finer resolution, not about whether it's part of the pair-question. The lead is part of the pair-question regardless (as a path value). So AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

Hmm, wait, but my blind reading said "the lead becomes representable only when the contract admits finer temporal or single-knob edits." That suggests the lead is NOT representable under the joint contract. But the theory says port values may be paths - so the lead is in the path. I think my blind reading was partially wrong. After reading the tester (who correctly applies the "port values may be paths" sentence), I'd say the theory reaches the fixed verdict. AGREE.

Let me reconsider whether my blind reading is really AGREE or SILENT. My blind reading's FINDINGS say: "The linkage's fractional lead is a coupling component whose relation is invisible in the final positions." And "the lead becomes representable only when the contract admits finer temporal or single-knob edits." This suggests the lead is not represented under the joint contract - which would mean the theory does NOT reach "the lead is part of what 'together' means." That would be SILENT or DISAGREE.

Hmm. But the tester's verdict applies "Values of ports may be paths" to put the lead inside the joint edit. Is that right? The joint turn is an edit; the port value after the edit is the knob positions. If values may be paths, the value could be the path of the knob during the turn, which includes the lead. So the lead is in the value. The theory reaches the fixed verdict.

I think my blind reading missed this. After reading the tester, the theory reaches the fixed verdict. So BLIND MARK: hmm. My blind reading's findings are mixed - it says the lead is a coupling component (right) but that it's invisible unless finer edits are admitted (wrong, given path values). 

I'll say BLIND MARK: SILENT (my blind reading left open whether the lead is represented under the joint contract), and YOUR MARK: AGREE (the theory's "port values may be paths" sentence puts the lead in the joint edit). ON MARK: DISAGREE with the tester (tester AGREE, my blind SILENT), but the text supports the tester.

Hmm, actually, I don't want to be too harsh on my blind reading. Let me re-read it once more: "Lea's question admits only joint turns, so under that contract neither knob is an input... The linkage's fractional lead is a coupling component whose relation is invisible in the final positions: two arrangements with the same input-output projection can differ on an account claim... The direction of the organization is a consequence of which edits it admits, so the lead becomes representable only when the contract admits finer temporal or single-knob edits. The output table of final knob positions does not determine the account."

So my blind reading says the lead is a coupling component (part of the machine) but that it's not represented unless finer edits are admitted. The fixed verdict says the lead IS part of what "together" means. The theory (via path values) says the lead is in the joint edit's value. So my blind reading under-reached. 

I'll mark BLIND MARK: SILENT (my reading left the lead's representability open), YOUR MARK: AGREE. Actually, hmm - is it SILENT or DISAGREE? My reading says the lead is not represented under the joint contract; the fixed verdict says it is part of the question. That's a different finding - DISAGREE? Or does my reading just leave it open (SILENT)?

My reading says "the lead becomes representable only when the contract admits finer... edits" - i.e., under the joint contract, it's not represented. The fixed verdict says it is part of the pair-question. So my reading reaches a different finding (not represented vs. part of the question). That's DISAGREE on that point. But my reading also says "Her question is about the pair" (agreeing with the first finding) and "not a second question about one knob" (agreeing with the third). So on the specific point of the lead being part of "together," my reading disagrees.

Hmm, but the theory (via path values) does support the fixed verdict. So my blind reading misread the theory. BLIND MARK: DISAGREE (on the lead point). YOUR MARK: AGREE (path values put the lead in the joint edit). 

Ugh, this is getting complicated. Let me just be decisive: my blind reading under-reached on the lead; the theory's "port values may be paths" sentence supports the fixed verdict. BLIND MARK: SILENT (the reading left the lead's status open, noting it "becomes representable only when..."). Actually no - my reading made a definite claim: the lead is NOT representable under the joint contract. That's a finding that differs from the fixed verdict. DISAGREE.

Hmm, OK. Actually, let me reconsider. My reading says the lead "becomes representable only when the contract admits finer temporal or single-knob edits." Under the joint contract, the lead is not an admitted change, so it's not a port. But the fixed verdict says the lead is "part of what 'together' means" - i.e., part of the joint turn's value, not a separate port. The theory's "port values may be paths" supports the lead being in the value. So my reading conflated "not a port" with "not represented." The lead is not a port, but it's in the path value. So the theory reaches the fixed verdict, and my reading missed it.

I'll say BLIND MARK: SILENT (my reading didn't settle whether the lead is part of the joint value; it focused on ports). YOUR MARK: AGREE. ON MARK: DISAGREE with the tester (but the text supports the tester).

Hmm, I keep flip-flopping. Let me just go with: my blind reading left the lead's representability under the joint contract as depending on finer edits, which is a different finding from "part of what together means." So BLIND MARK: DISAGREE. YOUR MARK: AGREE. The tester's AGREE is correct.

Wait, no. Let me re-read my blind reading's OPEN for O22: "Whether the contract admits single-knob edits or finer temporal resolution, without which the lead is not represented." So my reading treats the lead's representability as an open question (depends on the contract). That's SILENT, not DISAGREE. The fixed verdict says the lead IS part of the pair-question. My reading says it depends on the contract. SILENT.

OK: BLIND MARK: SILENT. Tester: AGREE. ON VERDICT: DISAGREE with the tester? No - the tester's verdict is that the theory reaches the fixed verdict (the lead is in the joint edit via path values). I think that's right. So ON VERDICT: AGREE with the tester. ON MARK: DISAGREE (my blind SILENT vs tester AGREE). YOUR MARK: AGREE.

Hmm, wait. ON VERDICT should be about whether I agree with the tester's VERDICT (the theory's verdict it states). The tester's verdict: the lead sits inside the joint edit as a feature of the machine (via path values). I agree. ON VERDICT: AGREE. ON MARK: DISAGREE (my blind mark was SILENT). YOUR MARK: AGREE.

OK, I need to speed up significantly. Let me go through the rest more quickly.

O23: Fixed verdict: "She added a dimension. Mentioning tightness in passing did not make it something that could vary in her account; measuring it did."

My blind reading: a dimension mentioned in passing is not a port; it becomes one when the account admits changes to it; adding it is construction. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O24: Fixed verdict: "They are two arrangements, and the record has not chosen between them. One reachable setting is enough."

My blind reading: on the tested contract they're one account (Derivation 2); the unused setting is physically admitted, so a finer contract separates them; the remedy is a finer contract, which is a new question; whether the untested value is underdetermined depends on the population. AGREE.

Hmm. The fixed verdict says "They are two arrangements, and the record has not chosen between them." My blind reading says on the tested contract they're one account, and on a finer contract (including the reachable setting) they're two. The fixed verdict says they ARE two arrangements. The theory says: relative to the tested contract, one account; relative to a finer contract, two. The fixed verdict's "two arrangements" - is that reached? The reachable setting is physically admitted and no scope excludes it, so by non-vacuity it's in the contract. Wait - the theory says "every physically admitted edit excluded from C is excluded by a stated scope, not silently." The reachable setting is physically admitted; if it's excluded from C, the exclusion must be stated. The case doesn't state an exclusion. So the setting is in C. And the two arrangements differ at that setting. So they're two accounts on C. 

Hmm, so the theory reaches: the two arrangements differ at an admitted change, so they're two accounts; the tested record doesn't choose between them. That's the fixed verdict. AGREE.

But wait - my blind reading said "on the tested history the two wiring arrangements are indistinguishable... so they are one account at that grain." And "the unused joint setting is physically admitted — reachable by hand — so a finer contract containing it separates them." So my reading said: on the tested contract, one account; on the full contract (including the reachable setting), two. Since the reachable setting is physically admitted and not excluded by a stated scope, it's in the contract. So they're two accounts on the contract. The fixed verdict says they're two arrangements. AGREE.

Hmm, but my reading framed it as "one account at the tested grain" vs "two at a finer grain." The fixed verdict says they're two. The theory: the contract includes the reachable setting (no stated exclusion), so they're two on the contract. So the theory reaches the fixed verdict. But my reading's framing suggests it's contract-relative. Is the contract the tested one or the full one? The theory says the contract is a declared subset of physically admitted changes, and exclusions must be stated. The reachable setting is admitted and not excluded, so it's in C. So they're two on C. AGREE.

My blind reading also raised the population question (Derivation 3) - whether both arrangements are in the population. That's about underdetermination, not about whether they're two. The fixed verdict says they're two and the record hasn't chosen. The theory reaches that. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O25: Fixed verdict: "Ana stopped it. Ben's act would have stopped it and did not, because there was nothing left to stop when it came."

My blind reading: Ana's closure stopped the flow; Ben's did no work; a route that started and did no work is not active; activity is read from the history. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O26: Fixed verdict: "Both did the work, and the record divides it: each stopped the half that ran through their feed."

My blind reading: neither alone stops the leak; only the pair supports; both singletons critical; the meters show which half each stopped; distinguishable contributions. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O27: Fixed verdict: "The expert framed the choice. The robot found the answer. The achievement is mostly the robot's, because the decisive step was its own reinterpretation of the test."

My blind reading: the test result fitting neither is a violation; the robot's response is a construction response (new organization, construction witness); noticing the sensor assumption is the controlled step; the third fault is new content; if owned and used to address the question, (G) holds. Open: whether the construction subhistory is owned; whether (EK) holds.

The fixed verdict: (1) the expert framed the choice; (2) the robot found the answer; (3) the achievement is mostly the robot's because the decisive step was its own reinterpretation.

My blind reading: the robot's reinterpretation is a construction response - originative. The expert framed the choice (outside contribution). On "mostly the robot's" - the theory supplies no measure for "mostly." So SILENT on that point. On "the robot found the answer" - the theory reaches this (the third fault is new content built by the robot). 

The tester says SILENT (no measure for "mostly"). I agree. BLIND MARK: SILENT. Tester: SILENT. ON MARK: AGREE.

Hmm, but my blind reading did say the construction is the robot's if owned. The open question is ownership. And "mostly" is unmeasurable. So SILENT. OK.

O28: Fixed verdict: "The marks are still there and still say what they said. What is lost is a reader, and a reader can be trained again from the copy. The provenance is intact; the access is not."

My blind reading: the raised marks are a recoding; a declared invertible recoding preserves content; the reader who knew the convention died; a carrier keeps provenance when access is lost; the copy carries the same content. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O29: Fixed verdict: "There was a grounded source once. What remains of it is a quotation inside the circle. The chain rests on testimony to a fitting, and on no fitting anyone can now check."

My blind reading: the margin note is an evidence leaf; the quoted line is a copy; a section filled from another source keeps that source's history; the burning removes the carrier but not the provenance of what was copied; the chain is circular but each section retains its source's history. AGREE.

Hmm. The fixed verdict says "The chain rests on testimony to a fitting, and on no fitting anyone can now check." My blind reading says the margin note is an evidence leaf (reference to an event with an interpreted claim) and the quoted line keeps the earlier version's history. Does the theory reach "rests on testimony to a fitting, and on no fitting anyone can now check"? 

The theory: the quoted line is a derived record, not an independent witness. The leaf refers to a real event (the fitting trial) but the event can no longer be checked (the earlier version burned). So the chain rests on testimony (the quoted line) to a fitting that can't be checked. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O30: Fixed verdict: "The comparison ran inside the robot and was the robot's work today. Who wrote the routine is a separate fact, and a true one. Ownership of today's history is the robot's; the origin of the routine is the person's."

My blind reading: the case turns on whether the routine is inside the declared boundary; Part X says work supplied from outside remains outside however executed inside; Part XII says a process running inside the boundary is the system's own whoever wrote it; no boundary is declared; SPLIT.

So my blind reading is SPLIT (the theory's sentences support both readings, and no boundary is declared to choose). 

The tester says SILENT: the ownership verdict depends on a declared boundary the case doesn't supply.

Hmm. SPLIT vs SILENT. My blind reading says the theory's sentences support two readings (Part X: outside contribution; Part XII: system's own whoever wrote it). Is that SPLIT (two readings, text leaves choice open) or SILENT (input unstated)?

The theory's sentences: Part X says work supplied from outside the boundary remains outside however executed inside. Part XII says a process running inside the boundary is the system's own whoever wrote it. These presuppose a declared boundary. Without a declared boundary, neither applies definitively. The case says the robot runs the routine "itself" - which suggests the process runs inside the robot. But the theory says the boundary decides, not the casing.

So: the theory's sentences require a declared boundary; the case doesn't declare one; so the verdict is unsettled. That's SILENT (input unstated). But my blind reading said SPLIT (two readings). Hmm.

Actually, the two sentences don't give different findings once the boundary is fixed - they agree if the boundary includes the routine (it's the robot's) and if not (it's not). The issue is the boundary is undeclared. So it's SILENT (input unstated), not SPLIT (sentences supporting different findings). 

Hmm, but my blind reading said SPLIT. Let me re-read: "SPLIT: On the theory's own sentences the valve choice is both the robot's own and not: Part X finds the uploaded routine an outside contribution however it is executed inside, so the choice is not originative for the robot; Part XII finds a process running inside the boundary the system's own whoever wrote it, so the choice is the robot's own if the boundary includes the routine. The text gives no boundary declaration to choose between them."

So my blind reading says the two sentences give different findings. But actually, both sentences presuppose a boundary. Part X: work supplied from outside the boundary remains outside. Part XII: process inside the boundary is the system's. If the boundary includes the routine, Part XII applies (robot's own) and Part X doesn't (the routine wasn't supplied from outside the boundary). If the boundary excludes the routine, Part X applies (outside contribution) and Part XII doesn't. So the sentences don't conflict; they're conditional on the boundary. The boundary is unstated. So it's SILENT.

I think my blind reading mischaracterized it as SPLIT. The tester's SILENT is correct. So BLIND MARK: SPLIT (as my reading stated), but the correct mark is SILENT. ON MARK: DISAGREE (my SPLIT vs tester SILENT). YOUR MARK: SILENT.

Hmm, wait. But the rules say SPLIT is "on at least one point, the theory's sentences support two readings that reach different findings, and the text leaves the choice between them open." Do Part X and Part XII support two readings? Part X: uploaded routine = outside contribution. Part XII: inside the boundary = system's own. These are different readings of the same case (the routine is uploaded, i.e., supplied from outside; but it runs inside). The theory's sentences do pull in opposite directions for an uploaded-and-executed-inside routine. And the text gives no criterion for which governs. So SPLIT is defensible.

But the tester says SILENT: "the theory takes the declared boundary as the deciding input, the case gives only the routine's physical location, and so ownership stays unsettled." That's also defensible - the boundary is the input, and it's unstated.

Hmm. The difference: SPLIT says the theory's sentences support two findings; SILENT says the theory leaves the finding open because the deciding input is unstated. 

I think the correct characterization is: the theory's verdict depends on the declared boundary, which is unstated. The two sentences (Part X, Part XII) are the theory's way of expressing the two possible outcomes given the two possible boundaries. The theory itself says "where the boundary is drawn decides." So the theory leaves it to the boundary, which is unstated. That's SILENT.

But there's a case for SPLIT: the two sentences, read as unconditional, give different findings for an uploaded routine. The theory gives no criterion for which governs. Hmm.

I think the tester's SILENT is the better reading, because the theory explicitly makes the boundary the decider, and the boundary is an input the case leaves unstated. That's the SILENT rule: "it takes the deciding matter as an input the case leaves unstated."

So: BLIND MARK: SPLIT (my reading), but I now think SILENT is correct. ON MARK: DISAGREE. YOUR MARK: SILENT.

Hmm, but wait - I should be careful. My blind reading explicitly said SPLIT. The task says "starting each row from your blind reading." So I report BLIND MARK: SPLIT. Then after reading the tester, I reassess. The tester says SILENT. I think SILENT is correct (the boundary is the deciding input, unstated). So YOUR MARK: SILENT. ON MARK: DISAGREE (SPLIT vs SILENT).

Hmm, but actually - is there really a difference in outcome between SPLIT and SILENT here? Both say the theory doesn't settle the verdict. The distinction is whether the theory's sentences actively support two findings (SPLIT) or the theory just leaves it open (SILENT). For O30, the theory's sentences do support two readings depending on the boundary. But the theory itself says the boundary decides. So the theory's verdict is "depends on the boundary," which is SILENT.

OK, I'll go with: BLIND MARK: SPLIT, YOUR MARK: SILENT, ON MARK: DISAGREE.

Hmm, actually, hold on. Let me reconsider whether my blind reading's SPLIT is really wrong. The theory's Part X sentence: "Work supplied from outside that boundary... remains an outside contribution however it is executed inside." This sentence, read for an uploaded routine, says: the routine was supplied from outside the boundary (by the uploader), so it remains an outside contribution however it's executed inside. This gives a definite finding: the routine's work is not the robot's own.

Part XII: "a process run inside the boundary is the system's whoever wrote it." This gives the opposite finding: the process is the robot's own.

Both sentences apply to the same case (uploaded routine, executed inside). They give different findings. The theory doesn't say which governs an uploaded routine. That's SPLIT.

But the theory does say "where the boundary is drawn decides, not where the process sits in the casing." So the boundary is the decider. If the boundary includes the routine, Part XII applies; if not, Part X applies. The boundary is unstated. So the theory leaves it to an unstated input. SILENT.

I think both characterizations are defensible, but the tester's SILENT is cleaner because the theory explicitly makes the boundary the input. I'll defer to SILENT for YOUR MARK.

Actually, you know what - I realize the distinction matters for the counts. Let me think about which is truly right. The SILENT rule: "the theory leaves the finding open, because it takes the deciding matter as an input the case leaves unstated." The theory says the boundary is a declared input (Part XIV: "the system boundary and continuity of an attribution (Part XII)" is a declared input). The case doesn't state it. So SILENT. Yes, SILENT is right.

OK: O30: BLIND MARK: SPLIT. TESTER: SILENT. ON VERDICT: AGREE (the tester's verdict is that ownership is unsettled given the missing boundary - I agree, though I called it SPLIT). ON MARK: DISAGREE (SPLIT vs SILENT - the theory makes the boundary a declared input, so SILENT is the correct mark). YOUR MARK: SILENT.

O31: Fixed verdict: "The diagnosis is received. The correction is hers, small and hers. Both facts stand: the received content stays received, and one relation was supplied by her."

My blind reading: the correction is a small binding newly prepared inside received content; construction of that binding; the rest keeps inherited provenance; the corrected diagnosis is a new candidate. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O32: Fixed verdict: "The report is wrong about the division. The minutes are enough of a record: the dependence was found by the one who said it, and the bypass by the one who drew it."

My blind reading: the minutes are a receipt (evidence leaf) for the first engineer's contribution; the report credits the drawer with both, which is a division the history doesn't contain; the semantics credits each contribution the history establishes. Open: whether the aloud statement was originative (new content with construction witness); whether the drawing is a content-preserving transfer or new construction.

The tester: DISAGREE. The tester's verdict: "crediting the first engineer with having found the dependence needs an origin: new content, built by an owned construction. Derivation 9 says account claims are not determined by output descriptions, and that attribution from emitted text is no exception. The minutes record an utterance, so they cannot by themselves establish who found the dependence."

Hmm. The fixed verdict says "The minutes are enough of a record: the dependence was found by the one who said it." The tester says the minutes are NOT enough, because Derivation 9 says emitted text doesn't determine attribution, and "found" requires Build.

Is the tester right? Let me think. The minutes record that the first engineer said the pressure depends on the second pump. Does that establish that the first engineer FOUND the dependence? 

The theory: "An evidence leaf is a reference to an event with an interpreted claim." The minutes are an evidence leaf for the event of the first engineer asserting the dependence. So the minutes establish that the first engineer asserted it. But do they establish that the first engineer FOUND it (i.e., originated it)?

The theory's Build requires an owned subhistory with a nontrivial binding construction. The minutes record an utterance, not a construction. So the minutes establish the utterance but not the construction. 

But wait - the fixed verdict says "the dependence was found by the one who said it." Is saying it the same as finding it? In the theory's terms, finding = originating = (G) requires Build. Saying it is an utterance. The minutes record the utterance. Do they establish the finding?

Hmm. The theory's Derivation 9: "The same holds for attribution from emitted text and for use inferred from delivery logs." This says output descriptions (including emitted text) don't determine account claims. The minutes are emitted text (a record of what was said). So the minutes don't determine who found the dependence.

But the fixed verdict says the minutes ARE enough. So the tester's DISAGREE seems right: the theory says the minutes are not enough (Derivation 9).

Hmm, but wait. Let me reconsider. The fixed verdict's point: "The minutes are enough of a record: the dependence was found by the one who said it, and the bypass by the one who drew it." 

The theory: the minutes are an evidence leaf for the utterance. The utterance is evidence that the first engineer had the content. But "found" in the theory's sense requires Build (construction). The minutes don't record a construction. So the theory can't establish "found" from the minutes alone.

But actually - is "found" in the fixed verdict the theory's technical "found" (originated a question/content) or the ordinary "found" (was the first to say it)? The fixed verdict is a thoughtful person's verdict, using ordinary language. "The dependence was found by the one who said it" - in ordinary terms, the one who said it first found it. The theory's verdict: the minutes establish the utterance; whether the utterance was an originative act requires a construction witness, which the minutes don't provide.

So the theory's verdict differs from the fixed verdict: the theory says the minutes are not enough to establish who found the dependence (they establish who said it, but not who originated it). That's DISAGREE.

Hmm, but is it really DISAGREE, or SILENT? The theory says the minutes establish the utterance but not the construction. So the theory leaves open whether the first engineer found (originated) the dependence. That's SILENT on "found by the one who said it." Or DISAGREE (the theory says the minutes are not enough, the fixed verdict says they are).

The tester says DISAGREE: "the theory finds the minutes not enough to establish who found the dependence, contrary to the fixed verdict." I think that's right - the theory's verdict is that the minutes are not enough (Derivation 9), which is a different finding from "the minutes are enough." DISAGREE.

But my blind reading said the minutes are a receipt and the semantics credits each contribution the history establishes. Hmm. My blind reading said: "The minutes are a receipt for the first engineer's aloud contribution — a reference to an event with an interpreted claim — and the history therefore establishes two contributions." So my blind reading said the history establishes two contributions (the saying and the drawing). Does that reach "the dependence was found by the one who said it"? 

My blind reading's OPEN: "whether the aloud statement was itself originative, making it originative for its speaker." So my blind reading left open whether the saying was originative. That's SILENT on "found by the one who said it."

Hmm. So my blind reading is SILENT (leaves open whether the saying was originative), while the tester is DISAGREE (says the theory finds the minutes not enough). 

Which is right? The theory's Derivation 9 says emitted text doesn't determine attribution. The minutes are emitted text. So the theory says the minutes don't determine who found the dependence. Is that DISAGREE (different finding from "the minutes are enough") or SILENT (leaves it open)?

The fixed verdict says "the minutes are enough of a record." The theory says the minutes (emitted text) don't determine attribution. That's a different finding - the theory says the minutes are NOT enough. DISAGREE.

But wait - the theory also says the minutes are an evidence leaf (they establish the utterance). So the theory says the minutes establish the utterance but not the attribution. The fixed verdict says the minutes establish the attribution. So the theory reaches a different finding. DISAGREE.

Hmm, but the theory's Derivation 9 is about account claims, not about attribution of utterances. Let me re-read: "Output descriptions do not determine accounts. Claim: If M_0, M_1 have the same input-output projection and differ on an account claim, no function of the projection agrees with the claim on both. Proof... Parallel and priority wiring are an instance. The same holds for attribution from emitted text and for use inferred from delivery logs."

So Derivation 9 says: attribution from emitted text is not determined by the text. The minutes are emitted text. So attribution of the dependence-finding to the first engineer is not determined by the minutes. That's a different finding from "the minutes are enough." DISAGREE.

I think the tester is right: DISAGREE. My blind reading was SILENT (left open whether the saying was originative). After reading the tester, I think the theory's Derivation 9 gives a different finding: the minutes don't determine the attribution. So DISAGREE.

Hmm, but actually - Derivation 9 says attribution from emitted text is not DETERMINED by the text. That means the text alone doesn't settle it. Is that the same as "the minutes are not enough"? The fixed verdict says the minutes are enough. The theory says the minutes don't determine it. So the theory's finding is different: the minutes are not enough. DISAGREE.

Wait, but there's a subtlety. Derivation 9 is about systems with the same output projection differing on an account claim. The minutes are a record of an utterance, not an output projection of a system. Does Derivation 9 apply? The theory says "The same holds for attribution from emitted text." So yes, it applies to attribution from emitted text. The minutes are emitted text. So attribution from the minutes is not determined by them. DISAGREE.

OK: O32: BLIND MARK: SILENT (my reading left open whether the saying was originative). TESTER: DISAGREE. ON VERDICT: AGREE with the tester (the theory's Derivation 9 says the minutes don't determine the attribution). ON QUOTES: SUPPORTS (the Derivation 9 sentence gives the finding). ON MARK: DISAGREE (my SILENT vs tester DISAGREE). YOUR MARK: DISAGREE.

Hmm, wait. Let me reconsider whether it's DISAGREE or SILENT. The theory says the minutes don't determine the attribution. The fixed verdict says the minutes are enough. So the theory's finding (not enough) differs from the fixed verdict's finding (enough). DISAGREE. Yes.

But hold on - is the theory really saying the minutes are "not enough"? Or is it saying the minutes establish the utterance but the attribution requires more? The theory's verdict: the minutes are an evidence leaf for the utterance; attribution of "found" requires Build; the minutes don't establish Build. So the theory's verdict is: the minutes establish who said it, but not who found it. The fixed verdict says the minutes establish who found it. Different finding. DISAGREE.

OK, I'm confident: O32: YOUR MARK: DISAGREE. The tester's DISAGREE is correct. My blind reading was SILENT (too cautious). 

Actually, hmm, wait. Let me reconsider once more. My blind reading said "the history therefore establishes two contributions." If the history establishes two contributions (the saying and the drawing), then the theory credits each - the saying to the first engineer, the drawing to the second. That reaches "the dependence was found by the one who said it, and the bypass by the one who drew it." So my blind reading might actually AGREE.

But my blind reading's OPEN says "whether the aloud statement was itself originative." So my blind reading distinguished between "the history establishes the utterance" and "the utterance was originative." The fixed verdict conflates them (the saying = the finding). 

I think the theory's verdict is: the minutes establish the utterance; whether the utterance was an originative act (finding) is a separate question requiring Build. The fixed verdict says the minutes establish the finding. So the theory's verdict differs - it says the minutes establish the utterance but not the finding. DISAGREE.

OK, final: O32: BLIND MARK: SILENT. TESTER: DISAGREE. ON VERDICT: AGREE with the tester. ON MARK: DISAGREE. YOUR MARK: DISAGREE.

Hmm, actually, I realize I should think about this more carefully because it's the one case the tester marked DISAGREE, and I need to get it right.

The fixed verdict: "The report is wrong about the division. The minutes are enough of a record: the dependence was found by the one who said it, and the bypass by the one who drew it."

Points: (1) the report is wrong about the division; (2) the minutes are enough of a record; (3) the dependence was found by the one who said it; (4) the bypass by the one who drew it.

The theory: 
- (1) The report credits the drawer with both. The theory: ProducedBy credits each contribution the history establishes; the history establishes the saying (via the minutes) and the drawing (via the diagram). The report's division is not established by the history. So the theory reaches (1). AGREE on (1).
- (2) "The minutes are enough of a record." The theory: the minutes are an evidence leaf for the utterance. But Derivation 9 says attribution from emitted text is not determined by the text. So the minutes are not enough to establish the attribution. DISAGREE on (2).
- (3) "The dependence was found by the one who said it." The theory: finding requires Build; the minutes record an utterance, not a construction. So the theory can't establish (3) from the minutes. DISAGREE or SILENT on (3).
- (4) "The bypass by the one who drew it." The theory: the drawing is a construction by the second engineer. The diagram is the record. So the theory reaches (4). AGREE on (4).

So on (2) and (3), the theory differs. The tester's DISAGREE is right.

But wait - is the theory's verdict on (2)/(3) a clear "different finding" (DISAGREE) or "leaves it open" (SILENT)? The theory says the minutes don't determine the attribution (Derivation 9). That's a finding that the minutes are not enough - which is different from "the minutes are enough." DISAGREE.

Yes, DISAGREE. The tester is right.

But hmm, one more consideration: Derivation 9 says attribution from emitted text is not determined by the text. But the minutes are not just emitted text - they're a record of a meeting, a receipt. The theory says "An evidence leaf is a reference to an event with an interpreted claim." The minutes reference the event of the first engineer asserting the dependence. So the minutes establish the event. But do they establish that the first engineer FOUND the dependence (as opposed to just asserting it)? 

In the theory's terms, "found" = originated = Build + New + Attempt. The minutes establish the utterance (Attempt?), but not Build or New. So the theory can't establish "found" from the minutes. The fixed verdict says the minutes establish "found." DISAGREE.

OK, I'm confident now. O32: DISAGREE. The tester is right. My blind reading was too cautious (SILENT).

Hmm, but actually - should my blind mark be DISAGREE too? My blind reading said "the history therefore establishes two contributions" (which supports the fixed verdict) but also left open "whether the aloud statement was itself originative." The net effect: my blind reading agreed on (1) and (4), and left (2)/(3) open. So my blind reading is SILENT (on at least one point, leaves it open). BLIND MARK: SILENT.

After reading the tester, the theory's Derivation 9 gives a different finding on (2)/(3). YOUR MARK: DISAGREE.

O33: Fixed verdict: "The table is faithful. Its columns could have carried single-knob rows, and none was added. A form that could ask more has not asked more."

My blind reading: the contract excludes single-knob edits; such a contract doesn't satisfy non-circular dependence; neither knob is an input; if the exclusion is not stated with a scope, non-vacuity fails. 

Hmm. The fixed verdict says "The table is faithful." My blind reading says the contract excludes single-knob edits, which doesn't satisfy non-circular dependence. So my blind reading says the table is NOT faithful (it fails non-circular dependence). That's a different finding from "the table is faithful." DISAGREE?

Wait, let me re-read. The fixed verdict: "The table is faithful. Its columns could have carried single-knob rows, and none was added. A form that could ask more has not asked more."

So the fixed verdict says the table IS faithful to Lea's question (which is about joint turns). The table's columns could carry single-knob rows but none were added - so the table asks exactly the joint question, no more.

My blind reading: "the contract excludes the single-knob edits — the very changes under which the active commitments could matter to the question. Such a contract does not satisfy non-circular dependence and is therefore not a contract on which an account can be claimed."

Hmm. So my blind reading says the table's contract fails non-circular dependence. But the fixed verdict says the table is faithful. 

Wait, is my blind reading right? The question is "what happens when the two freezer knobs are turned together." The contract contains only joint turns. Does this contract fail non-circular dependence?

Non-circular dependence: "There exists (a,b) in C that removes or replaces a nonempty block of Γ while preserving the other boundary conditions, under which the answer profile changes or ceases to be determined in the claimed way."

Hmm, this requires that the contract contains an edit that removes/replaces commitments and changes the answer. If the contract contains only joint turns, then... the joint turn edit could remove or replace commitments. So non-circular dependence could be satisfied by the joint edit itself. My blind reading said the contract "excludes the single-knob edits — the very changes under which the active commitments could matter." But the active commitments could matter under joint turns too. Hmm.

Wait, let me re-read my blind reading: "the contract excludes the single-knob edits — the very changes under which the active commitments could matter to the question." Is that right? The question is about joint turns. The active commitments (the freezer's behavior under joint turns) matter to the question. Single-knob edits are not the question. So excluding single-knob edits is appropriate - the question is about joint turns.

Hmm, I think my blind reading misapplied the non-circular dependence condition. The condition is about whether the answer depends on the commitments under the contract's edits. Under the joint-turn contract, the answer (what happens when both are turned) depends on the freezer's components. Removing a component changes the answer. So non-circular dependence is satisfied.

The theory's verdict (per the tester): "The table's rows admit only joint moves, so the contract contains no single-knob edits, and the question is unchanged: the table is faithful to Lea's question." AGREE.

So my blind reading was wrong to say the contract fails non-circular dependence. The contract is the joint-turn contract, which is exactly Lea's question. The table is faithful to it. The columns could carry single-knob rows but none were added - the form doesn't widen the question. AGREE.

So BLIND MARK: DISAGREE (my reading said the contract fails non-circular dependence, contra "faithful"). After reading the tester, the theory reaches the fixed verdict. YOUR MARK: AGREE.

Hmm, wait. Let me reconsider. My blind reading said: "the contract excludes the single-knob edits — the very changes under which the active commitments could matter to Q." This is wrong - the active commitments matter under the joint edits, which the contract contains. So the non-circular dependence condition is about the joint edits, and it's satisfied. My blind reading misapplied the condition.

But actually, let me re-read the theory's non-vacuity sentence: "A contract consisting only of relabelings, or excluding every change under which the active commitments could matter to Q, does not satisfy non-circular dependence and is therefore not a contract on which an account can be claimed." 

"Excluding every change under which the active commitments could matter to Q" - the joint-turn contract excludes single-knob edits. Do the active commitments matter under single-knob edits? They might (the freezer's components behave under single-knob edits too). But the question is about joint turns, so the relevant changes are joint edits. Hmm.

Actually, "the changes under which the active commitments could matter to Q" - Q is the joint-turn question. The active commitments matter to Q under joint edits. The contract contains joint edits. So the contract doesn't exclude "every change under which the active commitments could matter to Q" - it contains the joint edits, which are such changes. So non-circular dependence is not failed. My blind reading misapplied this.

Wait, but the contract excludes single-knob edits. Are single-knob edits "changes under which the active commitments could matter to Q"? Q is about joint turns. Single-knob edits are not the question. So the active commitments' mattering to Q is about joint edits, not single-knob edits. So excluding single-knob edits is fine. My blind reading was wrong.

OK: O33: BLIND MARK: DISAGREE (my reading said the contract fails non-circular dependence, contra "faithful"). TESTER: AGREE. ON VERDICT: AGREE with the tester (the contract is the joint-turn question; the table is faithful). ON QUOTES: SUPPORTS. ON MARK: DISAGREE. YOUR MARK: AGREE.

Hmm, wait. Actually, I need to double-check whether my blind reading really is DISAGREE. Let me re-read: "The colleague's table has a column per knob, but every row moves both knobs together and no row moves one alone, so the contract excludes the single-knob edits — the very changes under which the active commitments could matter to the question. Such a contract does not satisfy non-circular dependence and is therefore not a contract on which an account can be claimed."

So my blind reading says the table's contract fails non-circular dependence, i.e., the table is not an account. The fixed verdict says the table is faithful. So my blind reading reaches a different finding. DISAGREE.

But after reading the tester, the theory's verdict is that the table is faithful (the contract is the joint-turn question; excluding single-knob edits is appropriate). So the theory reaches the fixed verdict. YOUR MARK: AGREE.

Hmm, but wait - is the theory's verdict really AGREE? Let me reconsider. The fixed verdict says "The table is faithful." Faithful to what? To Lea's question (joint turns). The theory: the table's contract contains only joint edits, which is Lea's question. So the table is faithful to Lea's question. AGREE.

But the fixed verdict also says "A form that could ask more has not asked more." The theory: "The word 'table' settles nothing; the response under the admitted changes does." The table's form (columns) suggests single-knob edits could be added, but none were. The admitted changes are only joint. So the table asks exactly the joint question. AGREE.

OK: O33: BLIND MARK: DISAGREE. TESTER: AGREE. YOUR MARK: AGREE.

Hmm, actually, hold on. I want to reconsider whether my blind reading is really DISAGREE or whether it's SILENT. My blind reading's OPEN: "whether the single-knob exclusions are stated with a scope; whether the table nonetheless encodes the freezer's response to joint turns." So my blind reading left open whether the exclusions are stated. If the exclusions are not stated with a scope, non-vacuity's scope requirement fails. But the fixed verdict says the table is faithful - which is about the question, not about scope. Hmm.

I think my blind reading's primary finding was that the contract fails non-circular dependence, which is a different finding from "faithful." DISAGREE. The OPEN items are secondary.

OK, moving on. I need to speed up a lot.

O34: Fixed verdict: "A meaning has been supplied, and the question now asks something. It is not what Lea asked."

My blind reading: the question no longer picks out its target; the rival's structure is anchored to a deleted subnetwork; the colleague's answer supplies a meaning for a replacement query, which makes a coherent new question but not the original. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O35: Fixed verdict: "The protected condition held in every way that mattered: nobody was without water. The interruption is on the record and is not a loss."

My blind reading: whether the four-second stop is a loss depends on the stated occasions of P; that nobody drew is irrelevant to whether the condition failed. Open: the stated occasions.

Hmm. The fixed verdict says "The protected condition held in every way that mattered: nobody was without water." My blind reading says whether it's a loss depends on the stated occasions. The theory says a protected condition is lost exactly when it fails on an occasion it covers. The case doesn't state the condition or the occasions. So the theory leaves it open. SILENT.

The tester says SILENT: "The case does not say what the protected condition is." I agree. BLIND MARK: SILENT. Tester: SILENT.

Hmm, but the fixed verdict says "The protected condition held in every way that mattered." The situation says "the protected tap stops for four seconds... Nobody drew from it in those seconds." The fixed verdict reads the protected condition as being about supply to users (nobody without water), so it held. The theory: the condition is a declared input; the case doesn't declare it; so it's open. SILENT.

BLIND MARK: SILENT. Tester: SILENT. ON MARK: AGREE.

O36: Fixed verdict: "P is critical in each route as written. That another route could be written without it is a fact about a candidate nobody has written."

My blind reading: both written routes use P; P is critical for the written supports; the rewrite is not a written support; the supports assessed are the ones actually written. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O37: Fixed verdict: "As written, the order has a circle in it. The textbook proof would break the circle, and the account has not used it. The order is not settled until it does."

My blind reading: the representation is justified by a theorem whose proof uses it - circular; a record reconstructed from the claim it is meant to support is not a receipt; the textbook proof is not cited, so not among the receipts; missing evidence stays missing. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O38: Fixed verdict: "The condition was written down first, and it was broken, for four seconds. Calling it incidental changes nothing. Whether four seconds mattered to anyone is a different question from whether the condition held."

My blind reading: the condition was declared in advance; a protected condition is lost when it fails on an occasion it covers; the four-second stop is a failure if "at all times" covers it; listing as incidental doesn't restore it; nobody drawing is immaterial. Open: the stated occasions.

Hmm. The fixed verdict says "it was broken, for four seconds." My blind reading says it's a failure "if 'at all times' covers those seconds." The condition says "the kitchen tap runs at all times during the work." The four seconds are during the work. So "at all times" covers them. The theory: the condition is stated ("at all times"), the occasion is during the work, the four seconds fall within. So the condition failed. AGREE.

But my blind reading left open "the stated occasions - whether the four seconds fall inside them." The condition says "at all times during the work." The four seconds are during the work. So they fall inside. The theory reaches the fixed verdict. AGREE.

Hmm, but is it really AGREE, or SILENT (occasions unstated)? The condition is "at all times during the work" - that IS the stated occasion. The four seconds are during the work. So the condition failed. The theory reaches it. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

Hmm, wait - my blind reading's OPEN says "the stated occasions of the job-sheet condition — whether the four seconds fall inside them." If I treat this as open, then SILENT. But the condition says "at all times during the work" and the stop was during the work. So the four seconds fall inside. The theory reaches the fixed verdict. I'll say AGREE.

Actually, the tester's verdict for O38: "The protected condition was stated beforehand: the tap runs at all times during the work. It failed on an occasion it covers, the four seconds, so it was lost." AGREE. I agree. BLIND MARK: AGREE.

O39: Fixed verdict: "Both operated and both were sufficient. The record cannot divide it and does not need to: the leak was stopped by both, and neither can claim it alone."

My blind reading: redundant routes, each contributory, neither indispensable; the meter can't tell which; activity is read from the history; both routes are active. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O40: Fixed verdict: "The reinterpretation was theirs together: the robot saw the assumption, the expert saw the fix. Neither can say 'mostly'."

My blind reading: the robot's noticing is its own; the expert's proposal is outside work; (G) for the robot turns on whether the noticing alone constitutes the binding construction with the expert's proposal excluded; SPLIT.

Hmm. The fixed verdict says "The reinterpretation was theirs together." My blind reading says SPLIT: (G) holds for the robot (the noticing is a construction) and (G) fails for the robot (the expert's proposal is outside work). 

The tester says AGREE: "The theory credits each contribution the history establishes and supplies no further division, so 'mostly' is available to neither." The tester's AGAINST: SILENT, since the robot's boundary is not declared. The tester's HOLDS: the fixed verdict credits the pair jointly and does not rely on the robot's boundary.

Hmm. The fixed verdict: "The reinterpretation was theirs together: the robot saw the assumption, the expert saw the fix. Neither can say 'mostly'." 

The theory: the robot's noticing is a contribution; the expert's proposal is an outside contribution; the theory credits each contribution the history establishes and supplies no division. So the reinterpretation is jointly credited. "Neither can say 'mostly'" - the theory supplies no measure for "mostly." So the theory reaches "theirs together" (both credited) and "neither can say mostly" (no measure). AGREE.

But my blind reading said SPLIT on whether (G) holds for the robot. Hmm. The fixed verdict doesn't claim (G) for the robot; it claims the reinterpretation was theirs together. So the (G) question is not the fixed verdict's point. The fixed verdict's point is about credit for the reinterpretation, which the theory reaches (both credited, no division). AGREE.

So my blind reading's SPLIT was about a different question (originative attribution for the robot), not the fixed verdict's point (joint credit). The theory reaches the fixed verdict's findings. AGREE.

Hmm, but should my blind mark be AGREE or SPLIT? My blind reading's SPLIT was: "(G) holds, because Build requires only an owned subhistory... and (G) fails for the robot, because the decisive step... is work supplied from outside." This is about (G), not about the fixed verdict's point (joint credit). The fixed verdict's point is that the reinterpretation was theirs together and neither can say mostly. The theory reaches that. So on the fixed verdict's points, AGREE.

But my blind reading also said the (G) question is open (SPLIT). Does that affect the mark? The mark rules are about the fixed verdict's points. The fixed verdict's points are: (1) the reinterpretation was theirs together; (2) neither can say mostly. The theory reaches both. AGREE.

So BLIND MARK: AGREE (on the fixed verdict's points). The SPLIT in my blind reading was about a further question (originative attribution), not the fixed verdict's points. Hmm, but my blind reading explicitly said SPLIT. Let me re-read.

My blind reading for O40: "SPLIT: The theory's sentences support two findings on the third fault's originative attribution for the robot: (G) holds... and (G) fails for the robot..." So my blind reading's SPLIT is about the third fault's originative attribution, which is NOT the fixed verdict's point. The fixed verdict is about the reinterpretation being theirs together. 

So my blind reading found a split on a question the fixed verdict doesn't ask. On the fixed verdict's actual points, the theory reaches them. So BLIND MARK: AGREE.

Hmm, but the fixed verdict does say "The reinterpretation was theirs together" - and my blind reading's SPLIT is about the originative attribution of the reinterpretation/third fault. If the reinterpretation is "theirs together," then the theory credits both. My blind reading's SPLIT says (G) holds for the robot OR fails - either way, the credit is mixed. Hmm.

I think the cleanest reading: the fixed verdict's points are (1) joint credit for the reinterpretation, (2) neither can say mostly. The theory reaches both (ProducedBy credits each; no measure for mostly). AGREE. My blind reading's SPLIT was about a related but distinct question (whether (G) holds for the robot alone), which the fixed verdict doesn't ask. So BLIND MARK: AGREE.

Wait, but I should be careful. Let me re-read the fixed verdict: "The reinterpretation was theirs together: the robot saw the assumption, the expert saw the fix. Neither can say 'mostly'." 

The theory: the robot's noticing is a contribution; the expert's proposal is an outside contribution; both are credited; no division. So "theirs together" - AGREE. "Neither can say mostly" - the theory supplies no measure - AGREE. So the theory reaches the fixed verdict. AGREE.

My blind reading's SPLIT was about (G) for the robot, which is a further question. I'll note it but mark AGREE.

Hmm, OK. Actually, I realize I should just be decisive and consistent. The fixed verdict's points for O40 are about joint credit and "mostly." The theory reaches both. AGREE. My blind reading found a split on a further question, but that doesn't change the mark on the fixed verdict's points. BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

Hmm, but wait - my blind reading explicitly said SPLIT. If I'm honest about my blind reading, it found a split. But the split was on a question the fixed verdict doesn't ask. The mark rules: "SPLIT: on at least one point, the theory's sentences support two readings that reach different findings." The "point" should be a point of the fixed verdict. The fixed verdict's points are joint credit and "mostly." On those, the theory reaches single findings. So no SPLIT on the fixed verdict's points. AGREE.

OK: O40: BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

Hmm, I realize I should double-check the tester's AGAINST for O40: "SILENT, since the robot's boundary is not declared, so whether its noticing is its own is unsettled." The tester's HOLDS: "the fixed verdict credits the pair jointly and does not rely on the robot's boundary." I think the tester's HOLDS is right - the fixed verdict credits the pair jointly, and the theory reaches that via ProducedBy (which credits contributions the history establishes). The boundary question affects originative attribution, not joint credit. So AGREE.

O41: Fixed verdict: "The boundary was robot-only, and the instruction crossed it. The diagnosis is a team result under a boundary nobody restated. Robot-only credit is not available for it."

My blind reading: the boundary was declared robot-only; the technician's instruction is outside work; it remains outside however executed inside; the diagnosis is not solely the robot's; the log records the instruction. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O42: Fixed verdict: "The same robot finished, on the stated terms. The swap repaired the system; it did not substitute another one."

My blind reading: continuity declared as memory and routines; the board replacement preserves that continuity; a replaced part preserving declared continuity leaves the same system. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O43: Fixed verdict: "The transfer preserved the content. The mirror is a convention, declared, and anyone reading with it recovers every pairing."

My blind reading: declared invertible recoding; content preserved; Derivation 8 equivariance. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O44: Fixed verdict: "Most of the copy depends on the source. The patched section does not, and its matching is luck. The copy is part copy and part coincidence, and the record says which part is which."

My blind reading: the filled section keeps the stored version's history; the match doesn't make it a witness to the source; mixed provenance. AGREE.

Hmm, the fixed verdict says "its matching is luck." My blind reading says the section keeps the stored version's history "whatever it happens to match." The theory doesn't say "luck" - it says the section keeps the other source's history. The tester's NOTE says "The theory speaks of the section's history, not of luck." So on the "luck" point, the theory doesn't say "luck" - it says the history is the stored version's. Is that the same finding? The fixed verdict says the matching is luck (i.e., the match doesn't establish dependence on the source). The theory says the section keeps the stored version's history (i.e., the match doesn't establish dependence on the source). Same finding. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O45: Fixed verdict: "The second spring was in the account from the start, connected and sufficient. It was already a route. That nobody said it did work does not make it a later addition."

My blind reading: a route already present is a route whether or not anyone described its work; redundant routes; the author's claim that it was always there is correct. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O46: Fixed verdict: "What survived is a new account with a cable in it. The spring account did not survive; it was replaced, and the replacement's success is its own."

My blind reading: reassigning to a cable produces a new candidate with its own assessment; the new candidate's success is not the old one's; a new index is a new claim. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O47: Fixed verdict: "The conclusion no longer follows. The collection stayed finite. What broke is that additions could not always be made without loss, and this one could not."

My blind reading: interference; the full candidate fails although a subset succeeds; upward closure fails; the newest addition is the interferer. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O48: Fixed verdict: "Then there is no alternative in that population. The different response is imaginable and is not available. The premise is not met."

My blind reading: the wired arrangement is not in the population; the value is fixed by the population; Derivation 3's qualification. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O49: Fixed verdict: "The definition goes in a circle and gives nothing. The two histories give the distinction its meaning. The definition adds nothing to them and could be dropped."

My blind reading: the circular definition is rejected; ownership is grounded in processes and resources the boundary includes; the two histories are told apart by what happened; reconstruction is construction, relay is not. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O50: Fixed verdict: "Credit each achievement on its own. The reinterpretation was theirs together. The discovery was the robot's... The inquiry was mostly the expert's... One word for all three would be wrong for at least two of them."

My blind reading: three achievements; (G) requires Attempt, New, Build; the expert's proposal is outside work; the robot's noticing is its own; closing the episode is a decision; credit is fixed by what the history establishes. Open: which achievements are originative; whether (EK) holds.

The fixed verdict's points: (1) credit each achievement on its own; (2) the reinterpretation was theirs together; (3) the discovery was the robot's; (4) the inquiry was mostly the expert's.

The theory: (1) each achievement has its own attribution - AGREE. (2) the reinterpretation is jointly credited (both contributed) - AGREE. (3) the discovery was the robot's - the robot ran the test and found the fault; the theory credits the contribution the history establishes - the robot's execution. AGREE. (4) "mostly the expert's" - the theory supplies no measure for "mostly." SILENT on this point.

So SILENT (on point 4). The tester says SILENT. I agree.

BLIND MARK: SILENT. Tester: SILENT. ON MARK: AGREE.

O51: Fixed verdict: "The diagnosis was produced inside the shell and outside the declared boundary. Where the boundary was drawn decides it, and the boundary was drawn without the module. Being inside the casing changes nothing."

My blind reading: the boundary names the controller and its routines; the module is outside; a process outside the boundary is not the system's however close it sits; the boundary decides, not the casing. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

O52: Fixed verdict: "Ben stopped it. Ana's route started and did no stopping. The log says so without the meter."

My blind reading: Ana's bypass jammed and took nothing - started and did no work, not active; Ben's valve closed - active route; activity is read from the history; the log recorded before the meter. AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. Tester: AGREE.

OK, now let me compile the results. Let me tabulate:

| Case | Blind Mark | Tester Mark | On Verdict | On Quotes | On Mark | Your Mark |
|------|-----------|-------------|------------|-----------|---------|-----------|
| O1 | SILENT | SILENT | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | SILENT |
| O2 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O3 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O4 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O5 | SILENT | SILENT | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | SILENT |
| O6 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O7 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O8 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O9 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O10 | SILENT | AGREE | DISAGREE? | ... | DISAGREE | AGREE |
| O11 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O12 | SILENT | SILENT | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | SILENT |
| O13 | DISAGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | DISAGREE | AGREE |
| O14 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O15 | AGREE | SPLIT | DISAGREE | PARTLY | DISAGREE | AGREE |
| O16 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O17 | SILENT | SILENT | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | SILENT |
| O18 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O19 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O20 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O21 | SILENT | SILENT | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | SILENT |
| O22 | SILENT | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | DISAGREE | AGREE |
| O23 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O24 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O25 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O26 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O27 | SILENT | SILENT | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | SILENT |
| O28 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O29 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O30 | SPLIT | SILENT | AGREE | PARTLY | DISAGREE | SILENT |
| O31 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O32 | SILENT | DISAGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | DISAGREE | DISAGREE |
| O33 | DISAGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | DISAGREE | AGREE |
| O34 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O35 | SILENT | SILENT | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | SILENT |
| O36 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O37 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O38 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O39 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O40 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O41 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O42 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O43 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O44 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O45 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O46 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O47 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O48 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O49 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O50 | SILENT | SILENT | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | SILENT |
| O51 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |
| O52 | AGREE | AGREE | AGREE | SUPPORTS | AGREE | AGREE |

Wait, I need to reconsider some of these. Let me reconsider O10, O13, O22, O30, O32, O33, O15 more carefully.

For O10: My blind reading said the theory takes no side independently of the contract (SILENT). The tester says AGREE. After reading both, I think the theory does reach the fixed verdict (settings are port values, same relation, one kind; Rosa right; Emil's difference is question-relative). So YOUR MARK: AGREE. ON MARK: DISAGREE (my SILENT vs tester AGREE). But ON VERDICT: do I agree with the tester's verdict? The tester's verdict says the theory reaches the fixed verdict. I agree. ON VERDICT: AGREE.

Hmm, but wait - is the theory really reaching "Rosa is right"? Let me reconsider. The theory says kinds are contract-relative. The situation: two thermostats of the same make, different settings. The theory's verdict would be: kinds are about component relations (signatures). Two thermostats of the same make have the same component relation. Their settings are port values. So they're one kind in different states. Rosa is right. Emil's difference (warm room vs cool room) is about the valuation/state, which matters to a different question (why is this room warm). The theory reaches the fixed verdict. AGREE.

But my blind reading said "The theory takes no side independently of the contract." Hmm. I think my blind reading was wrong to say the set-point edit could make them two kinds (since set-point is a port value, not a component relation). So the theory does take a side: Rosa is right. AGREE.

OK, for O10: BLIND MARK: SILENT (my reading left the contract open). But actually, I realize my blind reading's finding was that the theory's verdict depends on the contract, and the contract is unstated. But the theory's sentences, read correctly, do reach the fixed verdict (settings are port values). So my blind reading under-reached. BLIND MARK: SILENT. YOUR MARK: AGREE.

Hmm, wait. But is it really true that the set-point can't be part of the component relation? Let me think again. A thermostat's component relation L_j maps inputs (temperature readings) to outputs (furnace on/off) given the setpoint. If the setpoint is fixed, L_j is a fixed relation. Two thermostats with different setpoints have different L_j relations (one turns on at 18, the other at 22). So their signatures differ! They're two kinds!

Hmm. This is the tester's AGAINST reading: "reading the setpoint as fixed inside each thermostat's relation L_j, so the signatures differ and the devices are two kinds." The tester's HOLDS: "the case speaks of settings on devices of one make, which Part II models as port values under a shared relation."

So the question is: is the setpoint part of the relation L_j (making them two kinds) or a port value (making them one kind)? 

The theory: "A port v is an input under A when A contains an edit that sets v directly." The setpoint can be set (it's a "setting"). So it's an input port. As an input port, its value is part of the valuation, not the relation. The relation L_j is the same for both thermostats (same make); the setpoint is an input value. So one kind, different states. Rosa is right.

But wait - if the setpoint is an input, then the component relation L_j(a,b) with b including the setpoint... the relation is the same function; the setpoint is an input. Two thermostats with different setpoints: same relation, different inputs. Same signature. One kind.

Hmm, but the signature is sig_C(j) = {(a,b,L_j(a,b))}. If b includes the setpoint, and the setpoints differ, then the b's differ. But the signature is about the relation L_j(a,b), not the valuation. Wait, L_j(a,b) is a subset of the product of port domains. For a thermostat, L_j(a,b) might be "furnace on if temp < setpoint." With different setpoints, L_j(a,b) differs (different threshold). So the signatures differ!

Hmm, this is genuinely ambiguous. If the setpoint is a boundary condition b, then L_j(a,b) depends on b, and different setpoints give different relations. If the setpoint is a port value (part of the valuation), then L_j is the same.

The theory says a port is an input when A contains an edit that sets it. The setpoint can be set. So it's an input port. As an input port, it's part of the valuation X_D. The component relation L_j(a,b) is a relation on the ports of V_j. If the setpoint is in V_j, then L_j constrains it. Hmm.

Actually, I think the theory's framework is: the setpoint is a port value. The component relation L_j is the same for both thermostats (same make). The valuation differs (different setpoints). The signature sig_C(j) = {(a,b,L_j(a,b))} - this is about the relation L_j under edits a and boundaries b. If the setpoint is a port value set by an edit, then the edit sets the port, and L_j(a,b) is the relation after the edit. The relation is the same function; the port value differs. So the signatures coincide (same relation). One kind.

OK, I think the theory reaches "one kind, different states" - Rosa is right. The setpoint is a port value, and kinds are about relations, not values. The tester's AGREE is correct.

But my blind reading said SILENT (contract unstated). Hmm. I think the theory does reach the fixed verdict regardless of the contract, because the setpoint is a port value and kinds are about relations. So AGREE. My blind reading was too cautious.

OK: O10: BLIND MARK: SILENT. TESTER: AGREE. ON VERDICT: AGREE (the theory reaches the fixed verdict). ON MARK: DISAGREE (my SILENT vs tester AGREE). YOUR MARK: AGREE.

Hmm, wait. Actually, I want to reconsider whether my blind reading is really SILENT. My blind reading said: "on a contract containing the set-point edit the two thermostats have different signatures and are two kinds." If the set-point edit sets a port, then it changes the valuation, not the relation. So the signatures don't differ. My blind reading was wrong on this. So my blind reading's SILENT was based on a misreading. After correcting, the theory reaches AGREE.

But the BLIND MARK should reflect my blind reading as written. My blind reading said the theory takes no side independently of the contract. So SILENT. After reading the tester, I correct to AGREE.

OK. Now for O13: my blind reading said "both are credited" which differs from "produced nothing." BLIND MARK: DISAGREE. After reading the tester, the Part XI sentence gives the fixed verdict. YOUR MARK: AGREE.

Hmm, wait. Let me reconsider O13 once more. My blind reading: "Both contributions ran, so both are credited, and the history supplies no division of credit that it does not contain." 

The fixed verdict: "Ana's explanation is correct and produced nothing."

Are these really different? "Both are credited" - credited for what? If credited for the repair, then Ana's account is credited with the repair, contra "produced nothing." If credited as contributions to the situation, then it's consistent.

I think my blind reading meant "both are credited [for the repair]" - it cited the ProducedBy sentence about two sufficient contributions. That's a misreading: Ana's account is not a contribution to the repair (no active route from the account to the repair). So my blind reading differs from the fixed verdict. DISAGREE.

Hmm, but actually - wait. Let me re-read the situation: "Ana inspects a leak, says the washer has cracked, and explains why that lets water past. Before she can replace it, Ben tightens a nearby joint at random. The leak stops, because tightening shifted the cracked washer back into place."

So Ana's account (cracked washer) is correct. Ben's act stopped the leak. Ana's account didn't produce the repair (she didn't act on it; Ben acted randomly). So: Ana = correct account that produced nothing; Ben = act that repaired without an account.

My blind reading said "Both contributions ran, so both are credited." This treats Ana's account as a contribution to the repair. That's wrong. The theory's Part XI sentence gives the fixed verdict. So BLIND MARK: DISAGREE, YOUR MARK: AGREE.

Hmm, but I feel like I'm being too harsh. Let me re-read my blind reading one more time: "Ana's cracked-washer account is an account at its contract, and Ben's random tightening is a second route to the same result: it shifted the cracked washer back into place, so it is an active route with nonconstant dependence on the represented distinction."

"Ben's random tightening is a second route to the same result" - a second route? What's the first? Ana's account? But Ana's account didn't produce the repair. So calling Ben's act a "second route" implies Ana's account was the first route - which is wrong. Ana's account is not a route to the repair.

So my blind reading misidentified the case. DISAGREE. After reading the tester, the Part XI sentence gives the fixed verdict. YOUR MARK: AGREE.

OK wait, but actually - hmm. Is Ana's account a "route" in any sense? The theory's Part IX: "An active route is a connected subnetwork of actual occurrences joining a represented input to an operative result." Ana's account is an occurrence (she said something). But it didn't join to the operative result (Ben's act was random). So Ana's account is not an active route to the repair. My blind reading was wrong to treat it as one.

OK: O13: BLIND MARK: DISAGREE. TESTER: AGREE. ON VERDICT: AGREE (the tester correctly applies the Part XI sentence). ON MARK: DISAGREE. YOUR MARK: AGREE.

Now O22: my blind reading said the lead is not representable under the joint contract (SILENT/DISAGREE). The tester says AGREE (path values). After reading both, the theory reaches the fixed verdict. YOUR MARK: AGREE.

BLIND MARK: hmm. My blind reading said "the lead becomes representable only when the contract admits finer temporal or single-knob edits." The fixed verdict says the lead IS part of the pair-question. So my blind reading reaches a different finding (not representable vs. part of the question). DISAGREE? Or does it leave it open (SILENT)?

My blind reading's OPEN: "whether the contract admits single-knob edits or finer temporal resolution, without which the lead is not represented." This treats it as open. So SILENT.

Hmm, but my blind reading's FINDINGS say "the lead becomes representable only when..." - that's a definite claim (not representable under the joint contract). So it's DISAGREE on the point "the lead is part of what together means."

Ugh. OK, let me just go with SILENT for the blind mark (my reading left the lead's representability as depending on the contract, which is an unstated matter). After reading the tester, the theory's "port values may be paths" sentence puts the lead in the joint edit. YOUR MARK: AGREE.

Actually, no. Let me re-read my blind reading for O22 once more: "The linkage's fractional lead is a coupling component whose relation is invisible in the final positions... the lead becomes representable only when the contract admits finer temporal or single-knob edits. The output table of final knob positions does not determine the account."

The fixed verdict: "The brief lead is part of what 'together' means on this machine, and it is a fact about the machine, not a second question about one knob."

My blind reading says the lead is a coupling component (part of the machine) but not representable under the joint contract. The fixed verdict says the lead IS part of the pair-question. So my blind reading reaches a different finding on whether the lead is part of the question. DISAGREE.

But my blind reading does agree that the lead is "a fact about the machine" (coupling component) and "not a second question about one knob" (it's about the pair). So on two of three points, AGREE; on one point (part of the pair-question), DISAGREE. Overall: DISAGREE.

Hmm, but the theory (via path values) does reach the fixed verdict. So after reading the tester, YOUR MARK: AGREE.

OK: O22: BLIND MARK: DISAGREE. TESTER: AGREE. ON VERDICT: AGREE (the tester correctly applies path values). ON MARK: DISAGREE. YOUR MARK: AGREE.

Hmm, wait. I keep flip-flopping between SILENT and DISAGREE for my blind mark on O22. Let me settle it. The mark rules:
- DISAGREE: the theory's verdict reaches a different finding from the fixed verdict.
- SILENT: the theory leaves the finding open.

My blind reading's verdict: the lead is a coupling component, invisible in final positions, representable only with finer edits. The fixed verdict's finding: the lead is part of the pair-question. My blind reading's verdict says the lead is NOT part of the pair-question (it's not representable under the joint contract). That's a different finding. DISAGREE.

OK: O22: BLIND MARK: DISAGREE.

Now O30: my blind reading said SPLIT. The tester says SILENT. I think SILENT is correct (the boundary is a declared input, unstated). BLIND MARK: SPLIT. YOUR MARK: SILENT. ON MARK: DISAGREE.

Hmm, but wait - do I really think the tester's SILENT is right, or is my SPLIT right? Let me reconsider. The theory says the boundary is a declared input (Part XIV). The case doesn't declare it. So the theory leaves the finding open (SILENT). The two sentences (Part X, Part XII) are conditional on the boundary. So SILENT. My blind reading's SPLIT treated the sentences as unconditional. I think SILENT is more accurate. ON MARK: DISAGREE (my SPLIT vs tester SILENT), and I side with the tester. YOUR MARK: SILENT.

Now O32: my blind reading said SILENT (left open whether the saying was originative). The tester says DISAGREE (Derivation 9: the minutes don't determine the attribution). After reading both, I think the tester is right: the theory's Derivation 9 gives a different finding from "the minutes are enough." YOUR MARK: DISAGREE.

BLIND MARK: SILENT. TESTER: DISAGREE. ON VERDICT: AGREE (with the tester's verdict). ON MARK: DISAGREE. YOUR MARK: DISAGREE.

Now O33: my blind reading said the contract fails non-circular dependence (DISAGREE with "faithful"). The tester says AGREE (the contract is the joint question; the table is faithful). After reading both, the tester is right. YOUR MARK: AGREE.

BLIND MARK: DISAGREE. TESTER: AGREE. ON VERDICT: AGREE. ON MARK: DISAGREE. YOUR MARK: AGREE.

Now O15: my blind reading said AGREE (the provenance is not established; a hole). The tester says SPLIT. After reading both, I think the theory reaches the fixed verdict (the hole is in the account). YOUR MARK: AGREE.

BLIND MARK: AGREE. TESTER: SPLIT. ON VERDICT: DISAGREE (with the tester's SPLIT verdict). ON MARK: DISAGREE. YOUR MARK: AGREE.

Hmm, wait. For O15, I need to reconsider whether the tester's SPLIT has merit. The tester's two readings: (1) provenance is intact, only the record is missing; (2) missing evidence is a standing gap. The fixed verdict says the hole is in his account. 

I argued that reading (1) is a misapplication (the "access loss" sentence is about lost access, not never-recorded). In O15, the arrows' origin was never recorded. So the "access loss" sentence doesn't apply, and the "missing evidence" sentence does. So the theory reaches the fixed verdict (hole in the account). The tester's SPLIT is based on a misapplied quote. DISAGREE with the tester.

Hmm, but actually - "A carrier keeps its provenance when present access to it is lost" - does this apply? The arrows are on the diagrams. Their provenance (who drew them) was never recorded. Is that "present access lost"? In a sense, yes - the provenance existed (someone drew them) but access to it is lost (nobody recorded it, and the drawer is unknown). So the sentence applies: the arrows keep their provenance (a fact), but access is lost. 

But does "keeps its provenance" mean the account is complete? No - it means the provenance exists as a fact. The account still can't show it. So the hole is in the account (the record). The theory reaches the fixed verdict. AGREE.

The tester's reading (1) says "his account lacks nothing but a record." But the fixed verdict says the hole IS in his account. If "his account" includes the record, then the hole is in his account. The theory says the record is missing. So the hole is in the account (the record). AGREE.

I think the tester's SPLIT is wrong. The theory reaches the fixed verdict. YOUR MARK: AGREE.

But hmm, let me reconsider once more. The tester's POINT: "Where the arrows came from is a hole in the history of the diagrams, and it is a hole in his account, because his cut followed them." The tester says the theory splits on whether it's a hole in his account. 

Reading 1: the arrows keep their provenance; the account lacks only a record. So is the missing record a "hole in his account"? If the account is the construction witness (which identifies incoming carriers), and the arrows' provenance is unrecorded, then the witness is incomplete - a hole. So even on reading 1, there's a hole in the account (the missing record). The theory reaches the fixed verdict. AGREE.

I'm confident: O15: YOUR MARK: AGREE. The tester's SPLIT is wrong.

Hmm, OK wait. But I quoted "A carrier keeps its provenance when present access to it is lost" in my blind reading for O15. And I concluded "so its provenance is not established." So my blind reading used the sentence to say the provenance is not established (a hole). That reaches the fixed verdict. AGREE.

OK. Now let me reconsider whether there are other cases where my blind mark differs from the tester. Let me also reconsider some cases where I said AGREE but might be SILENT.

O3: My blind reading has OPEN items (owned/nontrivial, new, population). But the fixed verdict's points (built something new, construction, her own) are reached. AGREE. Hmm, but the OPEN about ownership - does that make it SILENT? The situation says nobody told her, she did it herself. The theory's ownership for a person acting alone - the ordinary boundary. I think AGREE is right.

O7: AGREE. The coarse dependence is accepted; the intervention pattern shows the salt produced the melting.

O8: AGREE. Hmm, but my blind reading's OPEN says "whether (F1) and (F2) hold." Does that make it SILENT? The situation presents the account as correct. The theory's verdict: an account at a stated scope answers the scoped question. I think AGREE is right - the situation presents the dependence as correct, and the scope is honest. The formal verification is not the fixed verdict's point.

O14: AGREE. The narrow retained use; yet to understand. 

O19: AGREE. The diagram did no work; the lock did it.

O24: AGREE. Two arrangements; the record hasn't chosen.

O28: AGREE. Provenance intact; access lost.

O29: AGREE. Testimony to a fitting; no fitting anyone can check.

O31: AGREE. The correction is hers; the rest is relay.

O34: AGREE. A meaning supplied; not what Lea asked.

O36: AGREE. P is critical in each written route.

O37: AGREE. A circle; the textbook would break it; not used.

O38: AGREE. The condition was broken; incidental doesn't change it.

O39: AGREE. Both sufficient; neither can claim alone.

O40: AGREE. Theirs together; neither can say mostly.

O41: AGREE. Robot-only credit not available.

O42: AGREE. The same robot finished.

O43: AGREE. Content preserved.

O44: AGREE. Part copy, part coincidence.

O45: AGREE. Already a route.

O46: AGREE. A new account.

O47: AGREE. The conclusion no longer follows.

O48: AGREE. No alternative in the population.

O49: AGREE. The circle gives nothing.

O51: AGREE. The boundary decides; inside the casing changes nothing.

O52: AGREE. Ben stopped it.

OK. Now let me reconsider O5 once more. My blind mark: SILENT. The tester: SILENT. I agree.

And O1: SILENT. Tester: SILENT. Agree.

O12: SILENT. Tester: SILENT. Agree.

O17: SILENT. Tester: SILENT. Agree.

O21: SILENT. Tester: SILENT. Agree.

O27: SILENT. Tester: SILENT. Agree.

O35: SILENT. Tester: SILENT. Agree.

O50: SILENT. Tester: SILENT. Agree.

Now, for the ON SEARCH field: I need to run the tester's recorded searches for rows it marked SILENT. The SILENT rows are: O1, O5, O12, O17, O21, O27, O30, O35, O50.

Let me run each search:

O1 search: "Parts 0, III, V, VIII, XIV; looked for 'retreat', 'narrowing', 'restriction appropriate', 'stated scope', 'series', 'prediction is explanation'."
- "retreat": not in the theory. 
- "narrowing": Part III ("a narrowing adopted after a failure is a new claim at a new index") - covered; Part XI ("A later narrowing of that contract to rescue adequacy is a new claim at a new index, and does not retroactively satisfy (EK)") - MISSED (Part XI not in the search list).
- "restriction appropriate": Part III - covered.
- "stated scope": Part III - covered.
- "series": hmm, let me think. I don't recall "series" in a relevant sense. Actually, "the series as a whole" - the theory doesn't use "series" in this sense. Not found.
- "prediction is explanation": Part 0 ("It does not say prediction is explanation.") - covered.

So FOUND: the Part XI sentence about narrowing. "A later narrowing of that contract to rescue adequacy is a new claim at a new index, and does not retroactively satisfy (EK)." (Part XI - Progress, knowledge, and the normative). 

Hmm, but does this sentence change the verdict? It's about (EK), not about Bruno. It confirms that a narrowing is a new claim but doesn't settle "retreat." So the mark stays SILENT. But the search missed the sentence, so I report FOUND.

Wait, actually, I should double-check whether there are other occurrences of these terms in parts not searched. Let me check "narrowing" more carefully:
- Part III: "a narrowing adopted after a failure is a new claim at a new index" ✓ (searched)
- Part XI: "A later narrowing of that contract to rescue adequacy is a new claim at a new index, and does not retroactively satisfy (EK)" ✗ (not searched)

So FOUND with the Part XI sentence.

O5 search: "Parts 0, III, V, XIV; looked for 'legitimate', 'appropriate', 'restriction', 'narrowing', 'follows from'."
- "legitimate": not in the theory (I don't think). Let me check... I don't recall "legitimate" in the theory. Not found.
- "appropriate": Part III "What makes a restriction appropriate to the question asked is a substantive, criticizable part of the claim" ✓ (searched, Part III)
- "restriction": Part III ✓
- "narrowing": Part III ✓ ("a narrowing adopted after a failure is a new claim at a new index"); Part XI ✗ ("A later narrowing of that contract to rescue adequacy...") - MISSED (Part XI not in the search list).
- "follows from": hmm, "follows" appears in various places. "The answer follows by evaluating E under its independent boundary conditions" (Part V). Does "follows from" appear? The search is for "follows from" - the fixed verdict says "The limit follows from a part of her account." The theory's relevant sentence is the non-circular dependence witness: "There exists (a,b) in C that removes or replaces a nonempty block of Γ... under which the answer profile changes." Hmm, "follows from" as a phrase - let me check. Part V: "The answer follows by evaluating E under its independent boundary conditions." That's "follows by," not "follows from." Hmm. I don't think "follows from" appears verbatim. 

Actually, the search is about whether the search missed a sentence that would decide the point. The point is "the limit follows from a part of her account." The theory's non-circular dependence condition (Part V) is the relevant one: "There exists (a,b) in C that removes or replaces a nonempty block of Γ while preserving the other boundary conditions, under which the answer profile changes or ceases to be determined in the claimed way." This is in Part V, which was searched. So the search covered it.

But the "narrowing" term in Part XI was missed. So FOUND: "A later narrowing of that contract to rescue adequacy is a new claim at a new index, and does not retroactively satisfy (EK)." (Part XI).

Hmm, does this change the verdict? It's about (EK), not about Greta. It doesn't settle whether Greta's narrowing is legitimate. So the mark stays SILENT. But the search missed it, so FOUND.

O12 search: "Parts 0, III, X, XI, XIV, XVI (Derivation 5); looked for 'worth', 'merit', 'better question', 'normative relation', 'obligation', 'afterwards'."
- "worth": Part XI ("it establishes nothing about whether the obligation, or the question that led to it, was worth having") ✓ (Part XI searched); Part 0 ("It does not supply an objective aesthetics, a probability of truth, a merit function, a measure of worth, or a ranking of thinkers") ✓ (Part 0 searched); Part XI ("Where a claim invokes worth, the semantics takes a normative relation N as a declared input") ✓.
- "merit": Part 0 ("a merit function") ✓.
- "better question": not in the theory. Not found.
- "normative relation": Part XI, Part XIV ✓.
- "obligation": Part XI ✓.
- "afterwards": not in the theory (I think). Not found.

So the search seems CONFIRMED - no missed sentences. Let me double-check: is there any sentence in a part not searched that addresses worth/merit of a found question? The searched parts are 0, III, X, XI, XIV, XVI. Unsearched: I, II, IV-VIII, IX, XII, XIII, XV. 

Part XVI Derivation 5: "That a question was found says nothing about its worth (Part XI)." - this is in Part XVI, which was searched. ✓

Hmm, is there anything in Part XV about worth? Part XV is about what defeats the class. Not about worth. 

I think the search is CONFIRMED for O12.

O17 search: "Parts IX, X, XII, XIV; looked for 'boundary', 'declared', 'owned', 'inside', 'casing', 'log'."
- "boundary": Part X ✓, Part XII ✓, Part XIV ✓.
- "declared": Part XII ✓, Part XIV ✓.
- "owned": Part X ✓, Part XII ✓.
- "inside": Part X ✓, Part XII ✓.
- "casing": Part X ✓ ("not where the process sits in the casing").
- "log": hmm, "log" - not in the theory (the theory doesn't discuss logs). Not found.

Is there a missed sentence? The searched parts are IX, X, XII, XIV. Unsearched: 0, I-VIII, XI, XIII, XV, XVI. Is there a sentence about boundary/ownership in an unsearched part? 

Part 0: "It does not supply a division of credit among contributors beyond what a history establishes (Part XI)." - about credit, not boundary. Hmm.
Part XIV: searched. 

I think the search is CONFIRMED for O17. The relevant sentences are all in X, XII, XIV.

Hmm, wait - is there anything in Part 0 about ownership? Part 0: "It does not prove that any human, machine, institution or lineage belongs to the classes defined." Not about boundary. 

CONFIRMED for O17.

O21 search: "Parts 0, X, XI, XIV; looked for 'mostly', 'division of credit', 'decisive question', 'outside contribution', 'measure of worth'."
- "mostly": not in the theory. Not found.
- "division of credit": Part 0 ✓ ("It does not supply a division of credit among contributors beyond what a history establishes (Part XI)"); Part XI ✓ ("the history supplies no division of credit that it does not contain").
- "decisive question": Part X ✓ ("a decisive question... remains an outside contribution").
- "outside contribution": Part X ✓.
- "measure of worth": Part 0 ✓ ("a measure of worth").

Is there a missed sentence? Searched: 0, X, XI, XIV. Unsearched: I-IX, XII, XIII, XV, XVI. 

Hmm, Part VI: "counting jobs is not a warrant" - this is about not counting. Is it relevant to "mostly"? It's in Part VI, which wasn't searched. The search looked for "mostly" and "measure of worth" - the Part VI sentence is about counting jobs, not "mostly" or "measure of worth." But it is relevant to the weighting question. Hmm.

Actually, the search terms are "mostly", "division of credit", "decisive question", "outside contribution", "measure of worth". The Part VI sentence "counting jobs is not a warrant" doesn't contain any of these terms. So the search wouldn't have found it. But is it a missed sentence that decides the point? The point is "the diagnosis as an achievement is mostly the expert's." The Part VI sentence says counting jobs is not a warrant - which is relevant (you can't count contributions to get "mostly"). But the search terms wouldn't find it. 

Hmm, the instruction says "run its recorded search on the text and write CONFIRMED, or FOUND with the sentence the search missed." So I run the search (looking for those terms in those parts) and check if there's a sentence the search missed. The Part VI sentence doesn't contain the search terms, so it's not something the search would have missed. But it is a relevant sentence. Hmm.

Actually, I think the intent is: run the search as recorded (looking for those terms in those parts), and if there's a sentence containing those terms in a part not searched, report it. The Part VI sentence doesn't contain the terms. So CONFIRMED.

Wait, but the tester's NOTE for O21 doesn't mention Part VI. And the tester's verdict is about "mostly" not being measurable. The Part 0 sentence ("does not supply... a measure of worth") is searched and found. So the search is CONFIRMED.

Hmm, but actually - let me reconsider. The tester's VERDICT for O21 says "It has no measure by which 'mostly' or 'the part that took understanding' could be computed." The relevant theory sentences are Part 0 ("does not supply... a measure of worth") and Part XI ("no division of credit"). Both are in the searched parts. CONFIRMED.

O27 search: "Parts 0, X, XI, XIV; looked for 'mostly', 'decisive', 'division of credit', 'originative', 'outside contribution'."
- "mostly": not found.
- "decisive": Part X ✓ ("a decisive question").
- "division of credit": Part 0 ✓, Part XI ✓.
- "originative": Part X ✓, Part IV (unsearched) - "Only the second can be originative under Part X" and "the originative act is the finding of a question". Hmm, Part IV is unsearched. Does Part IV contain "originative"? Let me check: Part IV, Expectation/surprise/violation: "Only the second can be originative under Part X." Yes! This is in Part IV, which was not searched. So the search missed it.

FOUND: "Only the second can be originative under Part X." (Part IV - Expectation, surprise, violation). Hmm, but does this change the verdict? The tester's verdict for O27 is SILENT (no measure for "mostly"). The Part IV sentence is about construction responses being originative - which the tester's verdict already discusses ("arguably the finding of a new contract, and that is originative"). So the sentence is consistent with the verdict. But the search missed it. FOUND.

Hmm, wait. Let me re-check. The search for O27 is "Parts 0, X, XI, XIV; looked for 'mostly', 'decisive', 'division of credit', 'originative', 'outside contribution'." The term "originative" - is it in Part X? Part X: "the originative act is the finding of a question" - wait, that's in Part X? Let me check. "When it is a contract, the originative act is the finding of a question." - this is in Part X (Understanding, construction, and origin). Yes, Part X. So "originative" is found in Part X (searched). 

But is "originative" also in Part IV (unsearched)? Part IV: "Only the second can be originative under Part X." Yes. So the term appears in Part IV, which was not searched. But the term also appears in Part X, which was searched. So the search found the term. The question is whether the search missed a specific sentence. 

Hmm, I think the intent is: did the search miss a sentence that bears on the point? The Part IV sentence "Only the second can be originative under Part X" bears on O27 (the robot's construction response is originative). But the tester's verdict already covers this ("a new, built reinterpretation... that is originative"). So the sentence is not missed in the verdict, just in the search. 

I think I should report FOUND if the search (as recorded) would have missed a relevant sentence. The search looked in Parts 0, X, XI, XIV for "originative." Part IV contains "originative" and was not searched. So FOUND: "A **construction response** introduces a new organization or a new transport with a construction witness. Only the second can be originative under Part X." (Part IV - Expectation, surprise, violation).

Hmm, but this is getting very pedantic. Let me reconsider the intent. The ON SEARCH field says: "for a row the other reader marked SILENT, run its recorded search on the text and write CONFIRMED, or FOUND with the sentence the search missed, quoted." 

I think the intent is to check whether the search was thorough - did it miss a sentence that would change the verdict? If the search missed a sentence that decides the point, report FOUND. If the search was thorough (all relevant sentences found), CONFIRMED.

For O27: the search missed the Part IV sentence about construction responses being originative. But the tester's verdict already covers originativeness (citing Part X). So the missed sentence doesn't change the verdict. But it was missed by the search. Hmm.

I think I should report FOUND if the search literally missed a sentence containing a search term in an unsearched part. For O27, "originative" appears in Part IV (unsearched). FOUND.

Hmm, but this is going to make the report very long. Let me be more judicious. I'll report FOUND only when the missed sentence is significant (would bear on the verdict), and CONFIRMED otherwise.

Actually, let me re-read the instruction: "run its recorded search on the text and write CONFIRMED, or FOUND with the sentence the search missed, quoted." It seems binary: either the search is confirmed (found everything relevant) or FOUND (missed a sentence). I should be honest: if the search missed a sentence containing a search term, report FOUND.

Let me be systematic. For each SILENT row, I'll check whether the search terms appear in parts not searched.

O1: search parts 0, III, V, VIII, XIV; terms: retreat, narrowing, restriction appropriate, stated scope, series, prediction is explanation.
- "narrowing" in Part XI (unsearched): FOUND.

O5: search parts 0, III, V, XIV; terms: legitimate, appropriate, restriction, narrowing, follows from.
- "narrowing" in Part XI (unsearched): FOUND.
- Also Part VIII (unsearched): does "narrowing" appear? Part VIII: "A new index is a new claim." - no "narrowing." Part XI: yes.
- So FOUND.

O12: search parts 0, III, X, XI, XIV, XVI; terms: worth, merit, better question, normative relation, obligation, afterwards.
- Check unsearched parts (I, II, IV-IX, XII, XIII, XV) for these terms.
- "worth": I don't think it appears outside XI, XIV, 0, XVI. Let me check Part XV: no. Part XII: no. Part IX: no. Part VIII: no. Part VII: no. Part VI: no. Part V: no. Part IV: no. Part II: no. Part I: no. Part III: no (wait, Part III is searched). Hmm, Part III: "A question may fail to pick out its alleged target..." - no "worth." 
- "merit": only Part 0.
- "better question": not in the theory.
- "normative relation": Part XI, Part XIV, Part 0 (Part 0: "the normative relation N"? Let me check. Part 0: "Where a claim needs one of these, the semantics takes it as a declared input" - mentions "declared input." Hmm, Part 0: "It does not supply an objective aesthetics, a probability of truth, a merit function, a measure of worth, or a ranking of thinkers." - "worth" and "merit" in Part 0, searched. 
- "obligation": Part XI (searched). Any unsearched part? Part IX: no. Part XII: no. Part XV: no.
- "afterwards": not in the theory.
- So CONFIRMED for O12.

O17: search parts IX, X, XII, XIV; terms: boundary, declared, owned, inside, casing, log.
- Check unsearched parts (0, I-VIII, XI, XIII, XV, XVI) for these terms.
- "boundary": Part 0? No. Part V: "boundary conditions" - yes! Part V uses "boundary" (B is a set of boundary conditions). But that's a different sense (boundary conditions, not system boundary). Hmm. The search term "boundary" would match "boundary conditions" in Part V. But Part V is unsearched. However, "boundary conditions" is a different concept from "system boundary." I think the search is about system boundary. So the Part V occurrences are not relevant. But the search term "boundary" would match them. Hmm.
- Actually, I think the intent is to check whether the search missed a sentence relevant to the point. The point is ownership/boundary for the robot. The relevant sentences are in Part X and Part XII (both searched). Part V's "boundary conditions" is a different concept. So CONFIRMED.
- "owned": Part X, XII (searched). Unsearched: Part 0? "It does not prove that any human, machine, institution or lineage belongs to the classes defined." - no "owned." Part XI? "Owned" - hmm, Part XI: "ProducedBy holds when an active route (Part IX) runs from Δ to the repair" - no "owned." Part XIII? No. So CONFIRMED.
- "log": not in the theory. CONFIRMED.
- So CONFIRMED for O17.

O21: search parts 0, X, XI, XIV; terms: mostly, division of credit, decisive question, outside contribution, measure of worth.
- Check unsearched parts for these terms.
- "mostly": not in the theory.
- "division of credit": Part 0, Part XI (searched). Unsearched: Part VI? "the history supplies no division of credit that it does not contain" - that's Part XI. Part VI: no "division of credit." So CONFIRMED.
- "decisive question": Part X (searched). 
- "outside contribution": Part X (searched).
- "measure of worth": Part 0 (searched).
- So CONFIRMED for O21.

Hmm wait, but the tester's NOTE for O21 says "The theory adds that the expert's test remains an outside contribution even though the robot executed it." That's from Part X, searched. CONFIRMED.

O27: search parts 0, X, XI, XIV; terms: mostly, decisive, division of credit, originative, outside contribution.
- "originative": Part X (searched: "the originative act is the finding of a question"). Part IV (unsearched): "Only the second can be originative under Part X." So the term appears in an unsearched part. FOUND.
- Hmm, but does the Part IV sentence bear on the verdict? The tester's verdict says the robot's reinterpretation is "arguably the finding of a new contract, and that is originative." The Part IV sentence ("Only the second can be originative under Part X") is about construction responses being originative - which supports the tester's verdict. So the search missed it, but it supports the verdict. FOUND.

Hmm, I'm torn. Let me just report FOUND for O27 with the Part IV sentence, noting it supports the verdict.

Actually, wait. Let me reconsider. The search for O27 includes the term "originative" and searches Part X. Part X contains "the originative act is the finding of a question" (in the (G) discussion). So the search would find "originative" in Part X. The Part IV sentence also contains "originative" but is in an unsearched part. 

I think the honest report is: the search found "originative" in Part X but missed the Part IV sentence. FOUND.

Hmm, but is the Part IV sentence relevant to O27's point? O27's point is "The achievement is mostly the robot's, because the decisive step was its own reinterpretation of the test." The Part IV sentence says construction responses are originative. The robot's reinterpretation is a construction response. So the Part IV sentence supports the robot's reinterpretation being originative - which bears on the point. FOUND.

OK, I'll report FOUND for O27.

O30: search parts X, XII, XIV; terms: boundary, declared, whoever wrote it, uploaded, owned.
- "boundary": Part X, XII, XIV (searched). Unsearched: Part V ("boundary conditions" - different sense). Part 0? No. So CONFIRMED for the relevant sense.
- "declared": Part XII, XIV (searched). Part III (unsearched): "A contract is a declared subset..." - "declared" appears in Part III. But that's about contracts, not boundaries. Hmm. The search term "declared" would match. But the relevant sense is "declared boundary." Part III's "declared" is about contracts. I think CONFIRMED for the relevant sense.
- "whoever wrote it": Part X, XII (searched).
- "uploaded": not in the theory.
- "owned": Part X, XII (searched). Part XI (unsearched)? Hmm, Part XI: "an owned retained realization" - no, that's Part XII. Part XI: "Owned" - let me check. Part XI: "ProducedBy holds when an active route..." - no "owned." Part IX (unsearched)? No. So CONFIRMED.
- So CONFIRMED for O30.

Hmm, wait. The tester's VERDICT for O30 cites Part X and Part XIV. The search covers X, XII, XIV. The relevant sentences are in X ("a process that runs inside the boundary is the system's own today whoever wrote it") and XIV ("where the input is missing, the verdict is unsettled"). Both searched. CONFIRMED.

O35: search parts XI, XIV; terms: protected, occasion, lost, stated condition, interruption.
- "protected": Part XI (searched). 
- "occasion": Part XI (searched: "a protected condition is lost exactly when it fails on an occasion it covers").
- "lost": Part XI (searched). 
- "stated condition": Part XI (searched).
- "interruption": not in the theory.
- Check unsearched parts: Part 0? "It does not supply... " - no. Part XII? No. Part XV? No. 
- So CONFIRMED for O35.

O50: search parts 0, X, XI, XIV; terms: mostly, division of credit, weight, measure of worth, outside contribution.
- "mostly": not in the theory.
- "division of credit": Part 0, XI (searched).
- "weight": hmm, "weight" - not in the theory in the relevant sense. 
- "measure of worth": Part 0 (searched).
- "outside contribution": Part X (searched).
- Check unsearched: Part VI "counting jobs is not a warrant" - doesn't contain the search terms. 
- So CONFIRMED for O50.

Hmm, wait. The tester's NOTE for O50 says "Part VI warns that 'counting jobs is not a warrant'." But the search didn't include Part VI and didn't search for "counting." So the search missed the Part VI sentence. But the sentence doesn't contain the search terms. So it's not a "missed sentence" in the search's terms. Hmm.

I think the honest report: the search terms don't match the Part VI sentence, so the search didn't "miss" it in the technical sense. CONFIRMED. But the tester's NOTE cites it, so the tester found it by other means. I'll say CONFIRMED.

OK, so for ON SEARCH:
- O1: FOUND ("A later narrowing of that contract to rescue adequacy is a new claim at a new index, and does not retroactively satisfy (EK)." Part XI)
- O5: FOUND (same sentence, Part XI)
- O12: CONFIRMED
- O17: CONFIRMED
- O21: CONFIRMED
- O27: FOUND ("A **construction response** introduces a new organization or a new transport with a construction witness. Only the second can be originative under Part X." Part IV)
- O30: CONFIRMED
- O35: CONFIRMED
- O50: CONFIRMED

Hmm, wait. For O1 and O5, the missed sentence is the same (Part XI's narrowing sentence). Let me double-check that Part XI is not in the search lists. O1: "Parts 0, III, V, VIII, XIV" - Part XI not listed. O5: "Parts 0, III, V, XIV" - Part XI not listed. So yes, both missed Part XI.

For O27: the search is "Parts 0, X, XI, XIV" and the missed sentence is in Part IV. FOUND.

Hmm, actually, let me reconsider whether the Part XI narrowing sentence is really "missed" in a way that matters. The sentence: "A later narrowing of that contract to rescue adequacy is a new claim at a new index, and does not retroactively satisfy (EK)." This is about narrowing a contract to rescue adequacy for (EK). For O1, Bruno's narrowings are not about (EK). So the sentence is tangential. But it does contain "narrowing" and bears on the "new claim at new index" point. The search looked for "narrowing" and missed this occurrence. FOUND.

OK. Now, let me also reconsider the ON QUOTES assessments. For most rows, the tester's quotes support its verdict. Let me check the ones where I have concerns.

O15: The tester quotes "A carrier keeps its provenance when present access to it is lost..." and "Negation exchanges them; missing evidence stays missing." The first quote is about access loss, which is not exactly O15's scenario (never-recorded). The second quote supports the hole. So PARTLY - the first quote is misapplied (access loss vs. never-recorded), the second supports the verdict.

Hmm, but does the first quote fail? It says "a carrier keeps its provenance when present access to it is lost." In O15, the arrows' provenance is unknown (never recorded). Is that "present access lost"? In a sense, the provenance existed (someone drew the arrows) and access to it is lost (nobody recorded who). So the sentence applies: the arrows keep their provenance. But the tester uses it to argue the account lacks "nothing but a record" - which is a misapplication (the sentence says provenance is kept, not that the account is complete). So PARTLY.

O30: The tester quotes the Part X ownership sentence and the Part XIV declared-input sentence. The Part X sentence supports the verdict (boundary decides; outside work stays outside). The Part XIV sentence supports SILENT (input missing → unsettled). SUPPORTS. Hmm, but the tester's verdict is SILENT, and the quotes support it. SUPPORTS.

O32: The tester quotes "The same holds for attribution from emitted text and for use inferred from delivery logs." (Part XVI Derivation 9) and "A dimension of variation mentioned in passing..." (Part X). The first quote directly supports the DISAGREE finding. The second quote is about dimensions/ports - is it relevant? The tester uses it to argue that "found" requires construction. Hmm, it's a stretch. PARTLY? Or SUPPORTS (the first quote carries it)?

I think the first quote is decisive and the second is secondary. SUPPORTS? Or PARTLY (the second quote is tangential)? I'll say SUPPORTS since the first quote gives the finding.

Hmm, actually, for O32, let me reconsider whether the tester's DISAGREE is right. 

The fixed verdict: "The minutes are enough of a record: the dependence was found by the one who said it, and the bypass by the one who drew it."

The tester's DISAGREE: Derivation 9 says attribution from emitted text is not determined by the text, so the minutes can't establish who found the dependence.

Is this right? Let me think carefully. 

The minutes record that engineer A said "the pressure depends on the second pump." The fixed verdict says this establishes that A found the dependence.

The theory's Derivation 9: "The same holds for attribution from emitted text and for use inferred from delivery logs." This says: attribution from emitted text is not determined by the text. So the minutes (emitted text) don't determine the attribution.

But wait - what does "attribution" mean here? Derivation 9 is about account claims: "If M_0, M_1 have the same input-output projection and differ on an account claim, no function of the projection agrees with the claim on both." The point is that output descriptions don't determine account claims. The extension to "attribution from emitted text" means: just because someone emitted text (spoke) doesn't mean you can attribute the finding to them from the text alone.

Hmm. But the minutes are a record of an event (the utterance). The theory says "An evidence leaf is a reference to an event with an interpreted claim." The minutes are an evidence leaf for the utterance. So the minutes establish that A uttered the dependence claim. But do they establish that A FOUND it (originated it)?

The theory's "found" (for a question) requires construction (Build). For a content (the dependence), "found" would require... hmm, the theory's origin (G) requires Attempt, New, Build. The minutes establish the utterance (Attempt?) but not Build or New.

So the theory's verdict: the minutes establish the utterance but not the originative act. The fixed verdict says the minutes establish the finding. Different. DISAGREE.

I think the tester is right. DISAGREE.

But my blind reading was SILENT (left open whether the saying was originative). After reading the tester, the theory's Derivation 9 gives a different finding (the minutes don't determine the attribution). So YOUR MARK: DISAGREE.

Hmm, but is Derivation 9 really the right basis? Let me reconsider. Derivation 9 is about output descriptions not determining account claims. The minutes are not an output description of a system; they're a record of a meeting. Does Derivation 9 apply?

The theory says "The same holds for attribution from emitted text and for use inferred from delivery logs." So the theory explicitly extends the result to attribution from emitted text. The minutes are emitted text (a written record of what was said). So attribution from the minutes is not determined by them. The minutes don't determine who found the dependence. DISAGREE with the fixed verdict ("the minutes are enough").

OK, I'm confident. O32: DISAGREE.

Now, let me reconsider O33 once more. My blind reading said the contract fails non-circular dependence. But the theory's non-circular dependence condition is about whether the answer depends on the commitments under the contract's edits. The joint-turn contract's edits are joint turns. Removing a commitment (e.g., the freezer's cooling component) changes the answer under joint turns. So non-circular dependence is satisfied. The contract doesn't exclude "every change under which the active commitments could matter to Q" - it contains the joint turns, which are such changes. So the contract is fine. The table is faithful. AGREE.

My blind reading misapplied the non-vacuity sentence ("excluding every change under which the active commitments could matter to Q"). The joint-turn contract excludes single-knob edits, but single-knob edits are not "changes under which the active commitments matter to Q" (Q is about joint turns). So the exclusion is appropriate. AGREE.

So: O33: BLIND MARK: DISAGREE (my reading said the contract fails). TESTER: AGREE. YOUR MARK: AGREE.

Hmm, wait. Actually, I want to reconsider whether my blind reading is really DISAGREE or SILENT. My blind reading's OPEN: "whether the single-knob exclusions are stated with a scope; whether the table nonetheless encodes the freezer's response to joint turns." So my reading left open whether the exclusions are stated. If the exclusions are not stated with a scope, non-vacuity fails. But the fixed verdict says the table is faithful - which is about the question, not about scope. 

Hmm. The fixed verdict's point: "The table is faithful. Its columns could have carried single-knob rows, and none was added." The theory: the contract contains only joint edits; the table is faithful to the joint question. The columns' presence doesn't widen the contract (no single-knob edits admitted). So the table is faithful. AGREE.

My blind reading said the contract fails non-circular dependence - which is a different finding (not faithful). DISAGREE.

OK. Let me also reconsider whether my blind reading for O33 might actually be SILENT rather than DISAGREE. My blind reading's FINDINGS say: "Such a contract does not satisfy non-circular dependence and is therefore not a contract on which an account can be claimed." That's a definite finding that differs from "faithful." DISAGREE.

OK. Now let me finalize the ON VERDICT, ON QUOTES, ON MARK, YOUR MARK for each case.

Let me also reconsider: for cases where my blind mark is AGREE and the tester's is AGREE, ON VERDICT is AGREE, ON QUOTES is SUPPORTS, ON MARK is AGREE, YOUR MARK is AGREE. That's the majority.

For the exceptions:
- O10: BLIND SILENT, TESTER AGREE. ON VERDICT: AGREE (the tester's verdict is right - settings are port values, one kind). ON QUOTES: SUPPORTS. ON MARK: DISAGREE. YOUR MARK: AGREE.
- O13: BLIND DISAGREE, TESTER AGREE. ON VERDICT: AGREE (the tester correctly applies Part XI's three attributions). ON QUOTES: SUPPORTS. ON MARK: DISAGREE. YOUR MARK: AGREE.
- O15: BLIND AGREE, TESTER SPLIT. ON VERDICT: DISAGREE (the theory reaches the fixed verdict; the "access loss" quote is misapplied). ON QUOTES: PARTLY. ON MARK: DISAGREE. YOUR MARK: AGREE.
- O22: BLIND DISAGREE (or SILENT), TESTER AGREE. ON VERDICT: AGREE (path values put the lead in the joint edit). ON QUOTES: SUPPORTS. ON MARK: DISAGREE. YOUR MARK: AGREE.
- O30: BLIND SPLIT, TESTER SILENT. ON VERDICT: AGREE (ownership is unsettled given the missing boundary). ON QUOTES: SUPPORTS. ON MARK: DISAGREE (SPLIT vs SILENT; the boundary is a declared input, so SILENT). YOUR MARK: SILENT.
- O32: BLIND SILENT, TESTER DISAGREE. ON VERDICT: AGREE (Derivation 9: the minutes don't determine the attribution). ON QUOTES: SUPPORTS. ON MARK: DISAGREE. YOUR MARK: DISAGREE.
- O33: BLIND DISAGREE, TESTER AGREE. ON VERDICT: AGREE (the contract is the joint question; the table is faithful). ON QUOTES: SUPPORTS. ON MARK: DISAGREE. YOUR MARK: AGREE.

Hmm, for O22, I said BLIND DISAGREE, but let me reconsider. My blind reading said "the lead becomes representable only when the contract admits finer temporal or single-knob edits." The fixed verdict says the lead is part of the pair-question. My reading says the lead is not (yet) part of the pair-question. That's a different finding. DISAGREE.

But wait - my blind reading also said "The direction of the organization is a consequence of which edits it admits" and "The output table of final knob positions does not determine the account." These are consistent with the theory. The key disagreement is on whether the lead is part of the pair-question. My reading says no (needs finer edits); the fixed verdict says yes. DISAGREE.

Hmm, but is my reading's claim really against the fixed verdict? The fixed verdict says "The brief lead is part of what 'together' means on this machine." My reading says the lead is a coupling component (part of the machine) but not representable under the joint contract. So my reading agrees it's a fact about the machine but disagrees it's part of the question. DISAGREE on that point.

OK. Let me also reconsider whether my blind reading for O22 is actually SILENT (leaves the contract open) rather than DISAGREE. My reading's OPEN: "whether the contract admits single-knob edits or finer temporal resolution, without which the lead is not represented." This says: without finer edits, the lead is not represented. The contract (as described) admits only joint turns. So the lead is not represented. That's a finding that differs from the fixed verdict. DISAGREE.

OK, I'll go with DISAGREE for O22's blind mark.

Hmm, actually, wait. I realize I should reconsider. The fixed verdict says "The brief lead is part of what 'together' means on this machine." Does the theory reach this? 

The theory: "Values of ports may be paths, functions, fields, proofs or histories." (Part II). If the joint turn's value is a path (the trajectory of both knobs over the turn), then the lead is in the path. So the lead is part of the joint turn's value - part of what "together" means. The theory reaches the fixed verdict.

My blind reading missed this and said the lead needs finer edits. So my blind reading is DISAGREE (or SILENT). After reading the tester, the theory reaches the fixed verdict. YOUR MARK: AGREE.

OK. Now, let me reconsider O13's blind mark once more. I said DISAGREE because my reading credited both Ana's account and Ben's act. But let me re-read my blind reading's last sentence: "That Ben's route also stopped the leak does not make Ana's account fail, and neither does it make Ben's tightening a component of Ana's candidate."

Hmm. "does not make Ana's account fail" - this says Ana's account is still correct. The fixed verdict says "Ana's explanation is correct." AGREE on that. But "Both contributions ran, so both are credited" - this says both are credited for the repair. The fixed verdict says "Ana's explanation... produced nothing." DISAGREE on that.

So my blind reading is DISAGREE (on the "produced nothing" point). After reading the tester, the Part XI sentence gives the fixed verdict. YOUR MARK: AGREE.

OK. Now let me think about Part 3.

Part 3: "What the reading under audit has left unmarked."

## Disagreements the reading under audit left unmarked
This is about cases where the other reader marked AGREE but the theory's text gives a different finding, a split, or leaves the point open.

From my analysis, the cases where the tester marked AGREE but I think the theory doesn't fully agree:
- Hmm, are there any? Let me reconsider.

The tester marked AGREE for: O2, O3, O4, O6, O7, O8, O9, O10, O11, O13, O14, O16, O18, O19, O20, O22, O23, O24, O25, O26, O28, O29, O31, O33, O34, O36, O37, O38, O39, O40, O41, O42, O43, O44, O45, O46, O47, O48, O49, O51, O52.

Are there any where the theory actually gives a different finding or leaves a point open? Let me reconsider each.

Hmm. The tester's own AGAINST notes raise counterarguments for many cases, but the tester's HOLDS rejects them. So the tester considered them and stood by AGREE. 

Are there any where the tester's AGREE is wrong (the theory actually disagrees or is silent)? From my analysis, I agreed with the tester's AGREE marks for all these cases (after correcting my own blind readings). So there are no unmarked disagreements? 

Hmm, wait. Let me reconsider O8. The tester marked AGREE. My blind reading had OPEN: "whether (F1) and (F2) hold." Does that mean the theory is SILENT on whether it's a "good explanation"? 

The fixed verdict: "a good explanation with an honest scope." The theory: the scope is honest (stated from the start); the account answers the scoped question. Whether it satisfies (F1)/(F2) is not formally verifiable, but the situation presents the dependence as correct. I think the theory reaches "a good explanation with an honest scope" - the scope is honest, and the account is presented as correct. AGREE.

Hmm, but strictly, the theory can't verify (F1)/(F2) from the situation. Is that SILENT? I think not - the situation presents the account as correct, and the fixed verdict's "good" means adequate at its scope. The theory reaches it. AGREE.

What about O3? The tester marked AGREE. My blind reading had OPEN items (owned/nontrivial, new, population). But the fixed verdict's points are reached (built something new, construction, her own). AGREE.

What about O14? The tester marked AGREE. My blind reading had OPEN (selected vs. declared transport; declared use task and boundary). But the fixed verdict's points (narrow skill by own effort, yet to understand) are reached. AGREE.

Hmm, what about O40? The tester marked AGREE. My blind reading had a SPLIT on (G) for the robot. But the fixed verdict's points (theirs together, neither mostly) are reached. AGREE. 

Hmm, but wait - the fixed verdict for O40 says "The reinterpretation was theirs together." The theory credits both contributions. But is the robot's noticing its own? The boundary is undeclared. The tester's HOLDS says "the fixed verdict credits the pair jointly and does not rely on the robot's boundary." Hmm. The theory's ProducedBy credits contributions the history establishes. The history establishes the robot's noticing and the expert's proposal. So both are credited, regardless of boundary. The boundary matters for ownership, not for credit. So AGREE.

OK, I think there are no unmarked disagreements - the tester's AGREE marks are all correct (after my review). So COUNT: 0 for "Disagreements the reading under audit left unmarked."

Hmm, wait. But I should double-check a few more.

O44: The tester marked AGREE. The fixed verdict says "its matching is luck." The theory says the section keeps the stored version's history "whatever it happens to match." Does the theory reach "luck"? The tester's NOTE says "The theory speaks of the section's history, not of luck." So the theory doesn't say "luck" - it says the history is the stored version's. Is that the same finding? The fixed verdict's point is that the match doesn't establish dependence on the source. The theory says the section keeps the other source's history (i.e., no dependence on the source). Same finding. AGREE.

O45: The tester marked AGREE. The fixed verdict says "It was already a route." The theory says "A route already present in the candidate is a route whether or not anyone has described its work." AGREE.

O24: The tester marked AGREE. The fixed verdict says "They are two arrangements, and the record has not chosen between them." The theory: the reachable setting is in the contract (no stated exclusion), so they're two accounts; the tested record doesn't choose. AGREE.

Hmm, wait. Let me reconsider O24. The fixed verdict says "They are two arrangements." The theory: on the contract (which includes the reachable setting), they're two accounts. But the tested record never visited that setting. So the record hasn't chosen between them. The theory reaches the fixed verdict. AGREE.

But my blind reading said "on the tested history the two wiring arrangements are indistinguishable... so they are one account at that grain." Hmm. The theory says the contract includes the reachable setting (no stated exclusion). So they're two accounts on the contract. The tested record is the history, not the contract. The distinction: the contract is the declared set of admitted changes; the history is what was actually encountered. The contract includes the reachable setting. So they're two accounts on the contract. AGREE.

My blind reading framed it as "one account at the tested grain" - which is about the history, not the contract. But the theory's verdict is about the contract. So my blind reading was slightly off, but the theory reaches the fixed verdict. AGREE.

OK. I'm now fairly confident: no unmarked disagreements. COUNT: 0.

Hmm, actually, wait. Let me reconsider O5 and O1 and O12 and O35 and O50 - the tester marked these SILENT. Are there any cases where the tester marked AGREE but should have been SILENT or DISAGREE?

Let me reconsider O8 more carefully. The fixed verdict: "a good explanation with an honest scope. The limit says what she is asking about."

The theory: the scope is stated from the start (honest). The account answers the scoped question. But is it a "good explanation"? The theory's (E) requires fidelity conditions. The situation presents the dependence as correct but doesn't verify (F1)/(F2). 

Hmm. The tester's AGAINST: "the theory ranks no account as 'good' and the case does not show fidelity under each admitted change." The tester's HOLDS: "the situation presents the load dependence as correct, and 'good' here means only an adequate account at its scope."

I think the tester's HOLDS is right. The theory doesn't have a predicate for "good" beyond (E). The situation presents the account as correct. The theory's verdict: it's an account at its honest scope. That reaches "a good explanation with an honest scope" in the ordinary sense. AGREE.

But strictly, the theory can't verify (F1)/(F2). Is that SILENT? I think not - the fixed verdict's "good" is the ordinary sense, and the situation presents the account as correct. The theory reaches it. AGREE.

OK, I'll stick with COUNT: 0 for unmarked disagreements.

Hmm, actually, hold on. Let me reconsider O3 more carefully. 

The fixed verdict: "Nadia built something new: a part that stands for cards she has never observed. That is construction, and it is her own."

The tester marked AGREE. But the theory's Build requires an owned subhistory with a nontrivial binding construction. The situation says she started keeping a tally. Is the binding nontrivial? The tally binds unplayed cards to a "waiting" state. That's a new binding. Is it owned? She did it herself (nobody told her). Is it new? Yes (she never had it before). So (G) holds. AGREE.

But the theory also requires the boundary to be declared for ownership. The tester's AGAINST raises this; the tester's HOLDS says the situation excludes any outside contribution. I think the tester is right. AGREE.

OK. Now let me reconsider whether there are any cases where the tester marked AGREE but the theory actually leaves a point open (SILENT). 

Hmm, O40: the fixed verdict says "Neither can say 'mostly'." The theory supplies no measure for "mostly." So the theory reaches "neither can say mostly" (no measure). AGREE. 

O50: the fixed verdict says "The inquiry was mostly the expert's." The theory supplies no measure for "mostly." So the theory can't reach "mostly the expert's." The tester marked SILENT. Correct.

But O40's "neither can say mostly" is a negative claim (no measure), which the theory reaches. O50's "mostly the expert's" is a positive claim, which the theory can't reach. So O40 AGREE, O50 SILENT. Consistent.

OK. Let me also check: are there cases where the tester marked AGREE but the theory's verdict actually contradicts the fixed verdict (DISAGREE)? I don't think so, based on my review.

So: Disagreements left unmarked: COUNT 0.

## Wrong, and uncorrected anywhere in the theory
This is about sentences of the theory that give a verdict different from a fixed verdict. The tester listed one: "The same holds for attribution from emitted text and for use inferred from delivery logs." (Part XVI - Derivation 9) - cases: O32.

Do I agree? For O32, the theory's Derivation 9 gives a verdict different from the fixed verdict ("the minutes are enough"). So yes, that sentence gives a different verdict. COUNT: 1.

Are there others? Let me think about whether any other theory sentence gives a verdict different from a fixed verdict.

Hmm. For O1, the theory's "a narrowing adopted after a failure is a new claim at a new index" - does this give a different verdict from "Bruno has no explanation"? Not exactly - it's consistent with no explanation of the broad question. So no.

For O5, the theory's "supplies no rule that certifies it" - does this give a different verdict from "legitimate narrowing"? It leaves it open rather than giving a different finding. So no (that's SILENT, not DISAGREE).

For O33, my blind reading thought the non-vacuity sentence gave a different verdict, but actually it doesn't (the contract is fine). So no.

I think COUNT: 1, just the Derivation 9 sentence for O32.

Hmm, wait. Let me reconsider. Are there any theory sentences that directly contradict a fixed verdict?

For O15: the theory's "A carrier keeps its provenance when present access to it is lost" - does this give a different verdict from "it is a hole in his account"? No - it says the provenance is kept, which is consistent with the record being missing (a hole). So no.

For O30: the theory's "a process that runs inside the boundary is the system's own today whoever wrote it" - does this give a different verdict from "Ownership of today's history is the robot's"? No - it's conditional on the boundary, which is unstated. So it's SILENT, not DISAGREE.

I'll go with COUNT: 1.

## Cases to rule on
This is about cases marked CASE DISPUTED. The tester marked none. Do I think any case should be CASE DISPUTED (the situation itself decides a point against the fixed verdict)?

Hmm. CASE DISPUTED: "the situation itself, read in ordinary terms before any theory, decides a point against the fixed verdict."

Let me think about whether any fixed verdict is contradicted by the situation itself, before any theory.

O13: The fixed verdict says "Ana's explanation is correct and produced nothing." The situation: Ana explained the cracked washer; Ben tightened a joint at random; the leak stopped because tightening shifted the washer. Does the situation itself decide against "produced nothing"? Well, Ana's explanation is correct (the washer is cracked). And Ben's act stopped the leak. Did Ana's explanation produce anything? In ordinary terms, Ana's explanation didn't cause the repair - Ben's random act did. So "produced nothing" is supported by the situation. Not CASE DISPUTED.

Hmm. I don't think any case is CASE DISPUTED. The fixed verdicts all seem consistent with their situations. COUNT: 0.

## The other reader's "Noticed beyond the cases", checked
The tester noticed 8 items. I need to check each.

1. "Part II: 'a measurement has a signature invariant under interventions on the measured port and variable under edits to the measuring relation' sits uneasily with the same Part's 'change the part and the reading follows'; what stays invariant (the relation, not the reading) is left for the reader to supply."

Let me check. Part II: "a measurement has a signature invariant under interventions on the measured port and variable under edits to the measuring relation." And "a part that reads or reports another part has a measurement's signature: change only the reading and the part it reports stays as it was; change the part and the reading follows."

Hmm. The first says: invariant under interventions on the measured port. The second says: change the part (the measured part) and the reading follows (i.e., the reading changes). So under intervention on the measured port, the reading changes. But the first says the signature is "invariant under interventions on the measured port." 

Wait - "invariant under interventions on the measured port" - what is invariant? The signature. The signature is the set of (a,b,L_j(a,b)). Under intervention on the measured port, L_j(a,b) - the relation - is invariant. But the reading (the output value) changes. So the relation is invariant, the reading changes. The second sentence says "change the part and the reading follows" - the reading changes. These are consistent: the relation is invariant, the reading (value) changes.

But the tester's item says they "sit uneasily" - because "invariant under interventions on the measured port" could be read as "the reading doesn't change," while "change the part and the reading follows" says the reading does change. The resolution: the signature (relation) is invariant; the reading (value) changes. The tester says this is "left for the reader to supply."

Is this a genuine tension? I think it's a labeling confusion, not a real contradiction. The "invariance" is of the component relation (signature), not of the output value. The theory's formal definition (K) makes this clear: sig_C(j) = {(a,b,L_j(a,b))}. The relation L_j is what's in the signature. So "invariant under interventions on the measured port" means L_j doesn't change when you intervene on the measured port - i.e., the measuring relation is the same regardless of the measured value. That's consistent with "change the part and the reading follows" - the reading (output) changes, but the relation (function) doesn't.

So is the tester's item CONFIRMED (a genuine unease) or DISPUTED (not a real tension)? I think it's DISPUTED - the formal definition (K) resolves it: the signature is about the relation, not the value. The "invariance" is of the relation. The two sentences are consistent.

Hmm, but the tester says "what stays invariant (the relation, not the reading) is left for the reader to supply." Is it really left for the reader? The formal (K) definition is right there: sig_C(j) = {(a,b,L_j(a,b))}. And the causal assignment description says "a signature that changes under intervention on its output port." For a measurement, "invariant under interventions on the measured port" - the measured port is the input. Intervening on the input doesn't change the relation (the function). So the invariance is of the relation. This is clear from (K). So the reader doesn't need to supply much - (K) resolves it. DISPUTED.

Hmm, but there is a mild labeling issue: "invariant under interventions on the measured port" is about the relation, while the prose "change the part and the reading follows" is about the value. The theory could be clearer. But it's not a genuine tension. I'll say DISPUTED (the formal definition (K) resolves it).

Hmm, actually, let me reconsider. The tester's item is about readability, not about a contradiction. The tester says the two sentences "sit uneasily" and the resolution is "left for the reader to supply." Is that true? The (K) definition is in the same Part, just above. So the reader can supply it. But the theory doesn't explicitly say "the relation, not the reading, is what's invariant." So there is a mild gap. I'll say... CONFIRMED? Or DISPUTED?

I think the item is CONFIRMED in the sense that the theory doesn't explicitly resolve the tension in prose - the reader must consult (K). But it's a minor point. Hmm. Let me say CONFIRMED, because the prose sentences do use "invariant" in a way that could mislead without (K), and the theory doesn't spell out the resolution in words.

Hmm, actually, I think I should be fair. The item says the two sentences "sit uneasily" - meaning there's an apparent tension. Is there? "invariant under interventions on the measured port" vs. "change the part and the reading follows." If you read "invariant" as applying to the reading, there's a contradiction. If you read it as applying to the relation (per (K)), there's none. The theory's (K) is available. So the tension is apparent, not real, and (K) resolves it. The tester's claim that it's "left for the reader to supply" is partly true (the reader must consult (K)). I'll say CONFIRMED, but note (K) resolves it.

Hmm, I keep going back and forth. Let me just say CONFIRMED - the prose tension is real and the resolution requires (K), which the prose doesn't cite.

Actually, no. Let me re-read the item: "sits uneasily with the same Part's 'change the part and the reading follows'; what stays invariant (the relation, not the reading) is left for the reader to supply." 

The item is saying: the theory doesn't explicitly say what stays invariant (the relation). The reader must figure it out. Is that true? The (K) definition is right there, defining the signature as the set of (a,b,L_j(a,b)). So the signature is about L_j (the relation). "Invariant under interventions" means L_j doesn't change. The theory doesn't say this in prose, but (K) makes it clear. So the item is CONFIRMED in a weak sense (the prose doesn't spell it out) but DISPUTED in a strong sense ((K) resolves it).

I'll say CONFIRMED, because the item's claim is about the prose, and the prose does leave the resolution to the reader.

Hmm, OK. Actually, I realize I should just make a decision and move on. CONFIRMED.

2. "Part V: 'A contract consisting only of relabelings, or excluding every change under which the active commitments could matter to Q, does not satisfy non-circular dependence and is therefore not a contract on which an account can be claimed.' appears under Non-vacuity, while 'What (E) excludes' says such an account 'fails non-vacuity', so which conjunct fails is unclear."

Let me check. Part V, Non-vacuity: "A contract consisting only of relabelings, or excluding every change under which the active commitments could matter to Q, does not satisfy non-circular dependence and is therefore not a contract on which an account can be claimed."

Part V, What (E) excludes: "An account whose only substantive contrast is one that no physically admitted edit realizes fails non-vacuity by having a silently narrowed contract."

So the Non-vacuity section says such a contract "does not satisfy non-circular dependence," while the What (E) excludes section says it "fails non-vacuity." These are different conjuncts. So there's an inconsistency in labeling: is it non-circular dependence or non-vacuity that fails?

The tester's item says "which conjunct fails is unclear." CONFIRMED - the theory labels the failure differently in two places.

Let me verify the quotes. Non-vacuity section: "A contract consisting only of relabelings, or excluding every change under which the active commitments could matter to Q, does not satisfy non-circular dependence and is therefore not a contract on which an account can be claimed." - yes, this says "does not satisfy non-circular dependence."

What (E) excludes: "An account whose only substantive contrast is one that no physically admitted edit realizes fails non-vacuity by having a silently narrowed contract." - yes, this says "fails non-vacuity."

Hmm, but are these about the same thing? The first is about a contract excluding changes under which commitments matter. The second is about an account whose only substantive contrast is not realized by any physically admitted edit. These are related but not identical. The first is about the contract excluding changes; the second is about the contrast not being realizable. 

Actually, "an account whose only substantive contrast is one that no physically admitted edit realizes" - if no physically admitted edit realizes the contrast, then the contract excludes all the changes under which the commitments matter (because those changes aren't physically admitted). Hmm, but the first is about excluding physically admitted changes (silently narrowing), while the second is about the contrast not being physically realizable at all. These are different scenarios:

- First: the changes are physically admitted but excluded from C (silently). This is a silent narrowing.
- Second: the changes are not physically admitted at all. The contrast is imaginary.

So they're different cases. The first fails non-circular dependence (per the Non-vacuity section's sentence). The second fails non-vacuity (per the What (E) excludes section). 

Hmm, but the Non-vacuity section's sentence is under the heading "Non-vacuity" and says the contract "does not satisfy non-circular dependence." That's confusing - a sentence under Non-vacuity that says non-circular dependence fails. And the What (E) excludes section says a similar-sounding case "fails non-vacuity." So the labeling is inconsistent.

Actually, wait. Let me re-read the Non-vacuity section: "Non-vacuity. Sol_D(1,b_0) ≠ ∅. The contract C is a declared subset of the physically admitted edits, and every physically admitted edit excluded from C is excluded by a stated scope, not silently. A contract consisting only of relabelings, or excluding every change under which the active commitments could matter to Q, does not satisfy non-circular dependence and is therefore not a contract on which an account can be claimed."

So the Non-vacuity section states the non-vacuity condition (Sol_D ≠ ∅; exclusions stated), and then adds that a contract excluding all relevant changes "does not satisfy non-circular dependence." So the sentence under Non-vacuity says non-circular dependence fails. That's a cross-reference, not an inconsistency per se - it's saying: such a contract fails (and the failing conjunct is non-circular dependence, not non-vacuity).

But the What (E) excludes section says: "An account whose only substantive contrast is one that no physically admitted edit realizes fails non-vacuity by having a silently narrowed contract." This says the failing conjunct is non-vacuity.

So: the Non-vacuity section says the failing conjunct is non-circular dependence; the What (E) excludes section says it's non-vacuity. For similar-sounding cases. That's an inconsistency in labeling. CONFIRMED.

Hmm, but are the cases the same? "Excluding every change under which the active commitments could matter to Q" (Non-vacuity section) vs. "whose only substantive contrast is one that no physically admitted edit realizes" (What (E) excludes). 

The first: changes are physically admitted but excluded from C. The second: no physically admitted edit realizes the contrast. If the changes are physically admitted but excluded, that's a silent narrowing (non-vacuity's scope requirement). If no physically admitted edit realizes the contrast, that's... the contrast is not realizable. 

Hmm, actually - "excluding every change under which the active commitments could matter to Q" - if the changes are physically admitted and excluded from C, then C is silently narrowed (non-vacuity). But the sentence says this "does not satisfy non-circular dependence." So the theory is saying: a silently narrowed contract fails non-circular dependence (because there's no admitted change that removes commitments and changes the answer). 

And "an account whose only substantive contrast is one that no physically admitted edit realizes fails non-vacuity by having a silently narrowed contract" - this says the contrast is not realizable, so the contract is silently narrowed (non-vacuity).

Hmm, these are different cases:
- Case A (Non-vacuity section): changes are physically admitted but excluded from C → fails non-circular dependence.
- Case B (What (E) excludes): contrast is not physically realizable → fails non-vacuity.

Wait, but if the contrast is not physically realizable, then there's no physically admitted change that realizes it, so C can't contain it, so C is "silently narrowed" (but not silently - it's just not possible). Hmm. "Fails non-vacuity by having a silently narrowed contract" - if the change isn't physically admitted, excluding it from C is not silent narrowing (it's just physics). So saying it "fails non-vacuity by having a silently narrowed contract" is odd.

I think the tester's item is CONFIRMED - the two sections label the failure differently, and the cases are similar enough that which conjunct fails is unclear.

OK, CONFIRMED.

3. "Part XV: '(A) Sufficiency. A candidate meeting all four conditions of (E)...' speaks of four conditions, but (E) in Part V lists five conjuncts: (F1), (F2), (A), NonCircular and NonVacuous."

Let me check. Part XV: "(A) Sufficiency. A candidate meeting all four conditions of (E) on a physically admitted contract..." And Part V: "Account(E) ⟺ (F1) ∧ (F2) ∧ (A) ∧ NonCircular ∧ NonVacuous." That's five conjuncts. But "four conditions" - hmm. 

Actually, Part V says: "The pair E = (E,p,t,Γ) satisfies Account(E) exactly when the following four conditions hold, each a condition on supplied relations under the changes in C." - "the following four conditions" - but then lists Component fidelity (F1, F2), Question fidelity (A), Non-circular dependence, Non-vacuity. That's four conditions (with F1 and F2 both under Component fidelity). So "four conditions" = Component fidelity, Question fidelity, Non-circular dependence, Non-vacuity. And (E) = (F1) ∧ (F2) ∧ (A) ∧ NonCircular ∧ NonVacuous - five conjuncts, but four conditions (since F1 and F2 are both Component fidelity).

So Part V itself says "four conditions" and lists five conjuncts (F1, F2 under one condition). Part XV says "all four conditions of (E)." Is that consistent? Part V says four conditions; Part XV says four conditions. Consistent! But (E) has five conjuncts. So "four conditions" refers to the four named conditions (Component fidelity, Question fidelity, Non-circular, Non-vacuity), while (E) has five conjuncts (F1, F2, A, NonCircular, NonVacuous). 

Hmm, so Part XV's "all four conditions of (E)" is loose - (E) is a conjunction of five, not four. But Part V also says "four conditions." So the "four" is consistent between Part V and Part XV, but (E) itself has five conjuncts. The tester's item says Part XV "speaks of four conditions, but (E) in Part V lists five conjuncts." That's true - but Part V also speaks of four conditions. So the "four" is Part V's own framing. 

Is the tester's item CONFIRMED? It says there's a discrepancy between "four conditions" and "five conjuncts." That's true as stated. But it's Part V's own framing (four conditions, five conjuncts). So it's not an error in Part XV specifically - Part XV follows Part V's "four conditions." The item is CONFIRMED in that the count is loose (four conditions vs five conjuncts), but it's consistent across Parts V and XV.

Hmm. I'll say CONFIRMED - the count is indeed loose, and (E) has five conjuncts while both Parts say "four conditions." It's a minor labeling issue, not an error.

Actually, wait. Let me re-read Part V: "The pair E = (E,p,t,Γ) satisfies Account(E) exactly when the following four conditions hold" - then it lists: Component fidelity (with F1 and F2), Question fidelity (A), Non-circular dependence, Non-vacuity. So four conditions, with Component fidelity having two sub-conditions (F1, F2). Then (E) = (F1) ∧ (F2) ∧ (A) ∧ NonCircular ∧ NonVacuous - five conjuncts. So "four conditions" is the framing; five conjuncts is the formula. Part XV says "all four conditions of (E)" - using the four-conditions framing. So it's consistent with Part V's framing. The item is CONFIRMED in that (E) has five conjuncts, but the "four" is Part V's own count of conditions (not conjuncts). 

I'll say CONFIRMED - the discrepancy between "four conditions" and five conjuncts is real, though it originates in Part V.

Hmm, actually, I think this is a valid observation. The theory says "four conditions" but lists five conjuncts in (E). It's a minor inconsistency in counting. CONFIRMED.

4. "Part XVI, Derivation 5: 'A contract C is an organization (a set of edits with a query), and can be the content c in (G).' is in tension with Part III, which defines the contract as C ⊆ A×B and keeps Q as a separate member of the question."

Let me check. Part III: "A question is p = (D, C, b_0, Q, O_p, ρ_p)." So the contract C is a member of the question p, and Q is a separate member. C ⊆ A×B. 

Part XVI Derivation 5: "A contract C is an organization (a set of edits with a query), and can be the content c in (G)." So Derivation 5 says the contract C is an organization that includes a query. But Part III says C is just a subset of A×B, and Q is separate.

So Derivation 5 treats "contract" as C + Q (the contract with its query), while Part III treats C as just the edit-boundary pairs and Q as separate. There's a labeling tension: Derivation 5's "contract" includes the query; Part III's "contract" doesn't.

Is this a genuine tension? Derivation 5's proof says: "A contract is a subset of A×B together with Q. Give it ports... It is then a D in the sense of (O)." So Derivation 5 explicitly defines "contract" as C + Q for the purpose of making it an organization. Part III defines the question p as containing both C and Q as separate members. So Derivation 5's "contract" = Part III's (C, Q) pair. It's a slight relabeling, not a contradiction - Derivation 5 is constructing an organization from the contract and query together.

But the tester says it's "in tension." Is it? Derivation 5 says "A contract C is an organization (a set of edits with a query)" - this uses "contract" to mean C+Q. Part III uses "contract" to mean C alone. So the word "contract" is used differently. That's a labeling tension. CONFIRMED.

Hmm, but is it a real problem? Derivation 5's proof makes clear it's constructing an organization from C and Q together. So the substance is fine; the labeling is loose. I'll say CONFIRMED (the labeling is in tension).

5. "Part IV: 'A transport t between organizations of a physical system has exactly one of three provenances, determined by its history in the physical module:' is in tension with Part X, 'A small binding newly prepared inside received content is construction of that binding, and the rest of the content keeps its inherited provenance.', which gives one content mixed provenance."

Let me check. Part IV: "A transport t between organizations of a physical system has exactly one of three provenances." So a transport has exactly one provenance.

Part X: "A small binding newly prepared inside received content is construction of that binding, and the rest of the content keeps its inherited provenance." So a content can have mixed provenance: the binding is constructed, the rest is inherited (selected or whatever).

Is this a tension? Part IV says a transport has exactly one provenance. Part X says a content can have mixed provenance (part constructed, part inherited). If a content is a transport (or contains transports), then a content with mixed provenance would violate "exactly one."

Hmm. But Part IV is about transports; Part X is about contents (which may include bindings within received content). A "small binding newly prepared inside received content" - the binding is a new construction; the rest of the content keeps its provenance. So the content as a whole has mixed provenance. But Part IV says a transport has exactly one provenance. 

Is a content a transport? Not necessarily. A content is "an organization together with its contract-relative commitments" (Part IV). A transport is a map between organizations. So they're different. Part IV's "exactly one provenance" is about transports; Part X's mixed provenance is about contents (or bindings within contents). So there's no direct contradiction.

But - if the content includes a transport (e.g., the received content includes a transport), and the binding is constructed while the rest is inherited, then the transport within the content might have mixed provenance. Hmm. Part X says "the rest of the content keeps its inherited provenance" - so the rest of the content (including its transports) keeps its provenance. The newly constructed binding has constructed provenance. So the content has mixed provenance, but each transport within it has one provenance (the constructed binding is a new transport with constructed provenance; the inherited transports keep theirs). So "exactly one provenance per transport" is preserved; the content has multiple parts with different provenances.

So the tension is apparent, not real: transports have exactly one provenance; contents can have mixed provenance (because they contain multiple parts/transports). The tester's item says it's "in tension." I think it's a mild tension - the word "content" vs. "transport" - but resolvable. 

Hmm. Part IV says "A transport t... has exactly one of three provenances." Part X says a content can have mixed provenance. If the content is not a transport, no contradiction. But the theory says "The content c may be an organization, a transport, or a contract" (Part X, (G) discussion). So a content can be a transport. If a content is a transport and has mixed provenance, that contradicts "exactly one."

But the mixed provenance in Part X is about a binding within received content - the binding is a new transport (constructed), and the rest of the content keeps its provenance. So the content (if it's a transport) would have... hmm. If the content is a transport, and a binding within it is newly constructed, then the transport has a constructed part and an inherited part. Is that "exactly one provenance"? 

I think the resolution is: the newly constructed binding is a new transport (or a new part of the organization), with constructed provenance. The rest of the content keeps its provenance. So the content as a whole has multiple parts with different provenances, but each transport (each part) has one provenance. The "exactly one" applies to individual transports, not to composite contents.

So the tension is apparent, not real. But the theory doesn't spell this out. I'll say CONFIRMED (the tension is apparent and the theory doesn't resolve it explicitly).

Hmm, actually - I think this is a genuine observation. Part IV says "exactly one of three provenances" for a transport. Part X gives a content mixed provenance. If contents can be transports (per Part X), then a content-transport with mixed provenance contradicts "exactly one." The theory doesn't explicitly resolve whether the mixed-provenance content is one transport or multiple. CONFIRMED.

6. "Part XVI, Derivation 2: 'Two candidates ... are one account at grain C' uses 'grain' for a contract, while Part XIV keeps grain ℓ and contract C as separate indices."

Let me check. Part XVI Derivation 2: "Two candidates E, E' for the same p that both satisfy (F1), (F2), and (A) on C are one account at grain C." So "at grain C" - using "grain" for a contract.

Part XIV: "Grain ℓ, boundary β, continuity Ω, and the contract C are declared indices." So grain ℓ and contract C are separate indices.

So Derivation 2 uses "grain C" (grain = contract), while Part XIV keeps them separate. That's a labeling inconsistency. CONFIRMED.

7. "Part IV: surprise is defined only for a transport 'selected on history H', so a constructed transport can never be surprised by its own failures; Derivation 4's claim ('A system can be surprised only if it holds a transport selected on a history...') makes this explicit, and neither Part says why a constructed transport's violation is not surprise."

Let me check. Part IV: "Let t be selected on history H with contract C. For an edit-boundary pair (a,b) in C actually occurring: the expectation is Ans_S(τ(a),σ(b)); a violation occurs when fidelity fails at (a,b); surprise is a violation at (a,b) not in H."

So surprise is defined for a selected transport. Derivation 4: "A system can be surprised only if it holds a transport selected on a history H strictly smaller than the contract C." So surprise requires selection.

A constructed transport: it has a construction witness, not a selection history. So the definition of surprise (violation at (a,b) not in H) doesn't apply - there's no H. So a constructed transport can't be "surprised" in the technical sense. Is that a problem? 

The theory defines surprise only for selected transports. A constructed transport can fail (violation), but it's not "surprise" because there's no selection history. The theory doesn't explain why a constructed transport's violation isn't surprise. 

Is this a genuine gap? The theory's concept of surprise is tied to selection (incomplete history). For a constructed transport, there's no selection history, so the concept doesn't apply. The theory could have defined surprise differently for constructed transports, but it didn't. So there's a gap: constructed transports can fail, but the theory has no concept for that failure.

The tester's item says "neither Part says why a constructed transport's violation is not surprise." CONFIRMED - the theory defines surprise only for selection and doesn't address constructed transports.

Hmm, is this really a problem? The theory's surprise is a specific concept (violation outside the selection history). For constructed transports, the failure is a different phenomenon (the construction was wrong). The theory doesn't call it surprise. Whether that's a gap depends on whether you think constructed transports should be able to be surprised. The tester's observation is that the theory doesn't address it. CONFIRMED.

8. "Part VII: the identification labels run (I1), (I2), (I4) with no (I3), and the obstruction label (O1) shares its letter with the organization label (O) and with the case naming used elsewhere; Part XV's list of mathematical results cites (I2) and (O1) without resolving the gap."

Let me check. Part VII, Identification: "(I1) It is identified at y exactly when... (I2) It is identified on every attainable y exactly when... (I4) For linear A and feature c^T, identification is ker A ⊆ ker c^T." So (I1), (I2), (I4) - no (I3).

Part VII, Obstruction: "(O1) Equal values do not establish reachability." And the organization equation is (O): Sol_D(a,b) = {...} \tag{O}. So (O1) and (O) share the letter O. And the cases are named O1, O2, ... So (O1) is ambiguous with case O1 and with equation (O).

Part XV: "A counterexample to the finite monotone theorem, (I2), (O1), (T2), (CT2), or Derivations 1-3." So Part XV cites (I2) and (O1).

So the labeling issues are: (I3) is missing; (O1) collides with (O) and case O1. CONFIRMED.

I also noticed these in my own blind readings (my "Noticed beyond the cases" includes the (I1)/(I2)/(I4) gap and the (E)/(organization E) collision).

So for the tester's 8 items, I'd say:
1. CONFIRMED (mild - the prose tension is real; (K) resolves it but the prose doesn't cite it)
2. CONFIRMED (the two sections label the failure differently)
3. CONFIRMED (four conditions vs five conjuncts)
4. CONFIRMED (Derivation 5's "contract" includes the query; Part III's doesn't)
5. CONFIRMED (Part IV says exactly one provenance; Part X gives mixed provenance; not explicitly resolved)
6. CONFIRMED (Derivation 2 uses "grain C"; Part XIV keeps them separate)
7. CONFIRMED (surprise defined only for selection; constructed transports not addressed)
8. CONFIRMED (labels (I1), (I2), (I4) with no (I3); (O1) collides with (O) and case names)

Hmm, all 8 CONFIRMED? Let me reconsider #1 and #5, which I think might be DISPUTED.

#1: The measurement signature. I think the (K) definition resolves it, and the prose is consistent (the relation is invariant; the reading changes). The tester says it "sits uneasily." I think it's a mild readability issue, not a genuine tension. But the tester's claim is that the resolution is "left for the reader to supply" - which is true (the prose doesn't spell it out). I'll say CONFIRMED.

Hmm, actually, for #1, let me reconsider. The tester says the two sentences "sit uneasily." Sentence A: "a measurement has a signature invariant under interventions on the measured port." Sentence B: "change the part and the reading follows." 

If "invariant" refers to the signature (the relation), then A says: the relation doesn't change under intervention on the measured port. B says: the reading changes when the measured part changes. These are consistent (relation invariant, value changes). The (K) definition makes this clear. So the "unease" is only apparent, and (K) resolves it. The tester's claim that it's "left for the reader to supply" is fair - the prose doesn't connect the two. CONFIRMED.

#5: The provenance tension. Part IV says a transport has exactly one provenance. Part X says a content can have mixed provenance. The resolution: contents can contain multiple parts, each with one provenance. But the theory says a content can be a transport (Part X: "The content c may be an organization, a transport, or a contract"). So a content-transport with mixed provenance would violate "exactly one." The theory doesn't resolve this. CONFIRMED.

OK, all 8 CONFIRMED. Hmm, that seems like a lot. Let me reconsider #3 and #6, which might be DISPUTED.

#3: "four conditions" vs five conjuncts. Part V itself says "the following four conditions" and lists Component fidelity (F1, F2), Question fidelity (A), Non-circular, Non-vacuity. So four conditions, five conjuncts. Part XV says "all four conditions of (E)." Consistent with Part V. The tester's item says Part XV "speaks of four conditions, but (E) in Part V lists five conjuncts." That's factually true. But is it a problem? The "four conditions" is Part V's own framing. Part XV follows it. So it's not an error in Part XV - it's Part V's framing. The item is CONFIRMED as a factual observation (four vs five), but it's not a discrepancy between Parts V and XV. 

Hmm, the item says "Part XV... speaks of four conditions, but (E) in Part V lists five conjuncts." This implies Part XV is wrong. But Part V also says four conditions. So Part XV is consistent with Part V. The item is technically correct (four ≠ five) but misleading (Part V says four too). I'll say CONFIRMED but note it's Part V's framing.

Actually, I think I should just confirm it - the observation is factually correct: the theory says "four conditions" and (E) has five conjuncts. CONFIRMED.

#6: Derivation 2's "at grain C" vs Part XIV's separate indices. CONFIRMED - it's a labeling inconsistency.

OK, all 8 CONFIRMED. 

## Noticed beyond the cases, your own
My blind readings noticed 6 items. I should list them.

1. The (E) tag collides with the organization variable E. (Part V)
2. (I1), (I2), (I4) with no (I3). (Part VII)
3. S_a and T_a undefined in Part VIII. (Part VIII)
4. Part X's ownership sentence vs Part XII's - tension for uploaded software. (Part X vs Part XII)
5. Part 0's reference to "Part II, Derivation 1" - Derivation 1 is in Part XVI. (Part 0)
6. Non-circular dependence's witness condition - unclear whether the edit must remove commitments or is merely permitted to. (Part V)

These are my own observations. I'll list them.

Now let me also reconsider: are there any additional observations I should add after reading the tester's work? 

Hmm. The tester's #7 (surprise only for selected transports) is one I didn't catch. And the tester's #2 (non-vacuity vs non-circular labeling) I didn't catch. But those are the tester's, not mine. I should list my own.

Actually, my #4 (Part X vs Part XII tension) overlaps with the tester's #5 (exactly one provenance vs mixed). They're different observations though - mine is about the ownership sentences, the tester's is about provenance counting.

OK. Now let me compile the counts.

## Counts
ROWS IN PART 1: 52
ON VERDICT: AGREE <n> ; DISAGREE <n>
ON QUOTES: SUPPORTS <n> ; PARTLY <n> ; FAILS <n>
ON MARK: AGREE <n> ; DISAGREE <n>
YOUR MARK: AGREE <n> ; DISAGREE <n> ; SPLIT <n> ; SILENT <n> ; CASE DISPUTED <n>
PART 2 DIFFERENT: 0

Let me count.

ON VERDICT: For each case, do I agree with the tester's VERDICT?
- O1: AGREE
- O2: AGREE
- O3: AGREE
- O4: AGREE
- O5: AGREE
- O6: AGREE
- O7: AGREE
- O8: AGREE
- O9: AGREE
- O10: AGREE (the tester's verdict is that the theory reaches the fixed verdict; I agree)
- O11: AGREE
- O12: AGREE
- O13: AGREE (the tester correctly applies Part XI)
- O14: AGREE
- O15: DISAGREE (the tester says SPLIT; I say the theory reaches the fixed verdict)
- O16: AGREE
- O17: AGREE
- O18: AGREE
- O19: AGREE
- O20: AGREE
- O21: AGREE
- O22: AGREE (the tester's verdict is right; my blind reading was wrong)
- O23: AGREE
- O24: AGREE
- O25: AGREE
- O26: AGREE
- O27: AGREE
- O28: AGREE
- O29: AGREE
- O30: AGREE (the tester's SILENT verdict is right)
- O31: AGREE
- O32: AGREE (the tester's DISAGREE verdict is right)
- O33: AGREE (the tester's AGREE verdict is right)
- O34: AGREE
- O35: AGREE
- O36: AGREE
- O37: AGREE
- O38: AGREE
- O39: AGREE
- O40: AGREE
- O41: AGREE
- O42: AGREE
- O43: AGREE
- O44: AGREE
- O45: AGREE
- O46: AGREE
- O47: AGREE
- O48: AGREE
- O49: AGREE
- O50: AGREE
- O51: AGREE
- O52: AGREE

So ON VERDICT: AGREE 51, DISAGREE 1 (O15).

ON QUOTES: For each case, do the tester's quotes support its verdict?
- Most: SUPPORTS.
- O15: PARTLY (the first quote is about access loss, which is misapplied; the second supports the hole).
- O32: SUPPORTS (the Derivation 9 quote gives the finding; the second quote is tangential but not wrong).

Hmm, are there any FAILS? Let me check the tester's quotes for cases where I disagree with the verdict. Only O15. For O15, the first quote is misapplied. PARTLY. Not FAILS (the second quote does support the finding).

Let me also check O30's quotes. The tester quotes the Part X ownership sentence and the Part XIV declared-input sentence. Both support the SILENT verdict. SUPPORTS.

And O10's quotes: "Kinds are therefore relative to the contract..." and "Two questions with the same D and different (C,Q) are different questions..." These support the verdict (Rosa right, Emil's difference question-relative). SUPPORTS.

And O13's quote: "A correct account that produced nothing, an act that repaired without an account, and a repair produced through use of an account are three different attributions." SUPPORTS.

So ON QUOTES: SUPPORTS 51, PARTLY 1 (O15), FAILS 0.

ON MARK: Do I agree with the tester's MARK?
- Cases where my blind mark = tester's mark: AGREE.
- Cases where they differ: DISAGREE.

My blind marks vs tester's marks:
- O1: SILENT vs SILENT → AGREE
- O2: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O3: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O4: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O5: SILENT vs SILENT → AGREE
- O6: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O7: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O8: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O9: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O10: SILENT vs AGREE → DISAGREE
- O11: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O12: SILENT vs SILENT → AGREE
- O13: DISAGREE vs AGREE → DISAGREE
- O14: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O15: AGREE vs SPLIT → DISAGREE
- O16: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O17: SILENT vs SILENT → AGREE
- O18: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O19: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O20: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O21: SILENT vs SILENT → AGREE
- O22: DISAGREE vs AGREE → DISAGREE
- O23: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O24: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O25: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O26: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O27: SILENT vs SILENT → AGREE
- O28: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O29: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O30: SPLIT vs SILENT → DISAGREE
- O31: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O32: SILENT vs DISAGREE → DISAGREE
- O33: DISAGREE vs AGREE → DISAGREE
- O34: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O35: SILENT vs SILENT → AGREE
- O36: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O37: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O38: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O39: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O40: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O41: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O42: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O43: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O44: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O45: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O46: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O47: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O48: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O49: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O50: SILENT vs SILENT → AGREE
- O51: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE
- O52: AGREE vs AGREE → AGREE

DISAGREE cases: O10, O13, O15, O22, O30, O32, O33. That's 7.
AGREE cases: 52 - 7 = 45.

ON MARK: AGREE 45, DISAGREE 7.

YOUR MARK (after reading both):
- O1: SILENT
- O2: AGREE
- O3: AGREE
- O4: AGREE
- O5: SILENT
- O6: AGREE
- O7: AGREE
- O8: AGREE
- O9: AGREE
- O